Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on December 5, 2025 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
This report includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including the following sections: “Business” (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K), “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K), and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” (Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly. Our mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
We develop and support a broad portfolio of technology solutions for individuals and businesses, focusing on secure, trusted, and innovative platforms and tools that meet evolving customer needs across cloud computing, productivity and collaboration, and personal computing. We strive to create opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world.
AI is fundamentally transforming productivity for every individual, organization, and industry. Microsoft's AI offerings span every layer of the technology stack, enabling transformative outcomes across sectors and unlocking opportunity for every country, community, and individual.
We believe AI should be as empowering as it is powerful, and we’re committed to designing and deploying AI responsibly with safety and security from the outset.
Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential.
We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services. We also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience.
Our products include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, and video games. We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Digital transformation and adoption of AI continues to revolutionize more business workstreams for organizations in every sector across the globe. For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services.
The Microsoft Cloud provides integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility. Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs.
We prioritize security above all else and we offer our customers integrated AI-driven products addressing security, compliance, identity, management, and privacy across customers’ multi-cloud, application, and device assets.
To achieve our vision, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions:
Reinvent productivity and business processes to help organizations and individuals work and collaborate more securely and efficiently.
Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform to provide a foundation for our customers’ digital workloads including hybrid consistency, developer productivity, data and AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance.
We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the AI platform wave across our solution areas. We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Our goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in:
Transforming the workplace to deliver new, modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another.
Building and running cloud-based services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.
Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types of work and business processes, and provide substantive productivity gains using Microsoft 365 Copilot and agents.
Providing training on generative AI and greater access to digital learning and resources through skilling programs and initiatives, grants, and LinkedIn learning pathways.
Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any device and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming.
Leveraging Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft Edge, Bing, Copilot, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Consumer, Xbox Game Pass, and more.
Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all clouds and platforms.
Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions.
Microsoft is committed to sustainability and our approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we announced goals to become a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030. Since announcing these goals, we have made meaningful progress while having seen major changes in both the technology sector and in our understanding of what it will take to meet our goals. Progress toward these goals can be found in our annual Environmental Sustainability Report.
We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses.
In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes.
Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Our reportable segments are described below.
Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises:
Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft 365 Commercial products, comprising Windows Commercial on-premises and Office licensed on-premises.
Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other consumer services.
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Microsoft 365 Commercial is an AI-powered business and productivity solutions platform that brings together Office, Windows, Microsoft 365 Copilot, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add AI-enabled tools, features, and agentic scenarios to our core product and service offerings across communication, collaboration, analytics, security, compliance, and other AI business productivity categories. Microsoft 365 Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365.
Microsoft 365 Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set with new features including AI tools, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets. Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue and Office Consumer products revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue is also affected by the demand for communication and storage through Outlook.com and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions and advertising.
LinkedIn connects the world’s professionals to make them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire, market, sell, and learn. In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions designed to offer AI-enabled insights and productivity: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Growth will depend on our ability to increase LinkedIn member engagement on the platform and our ability to continue offering insight and AI-enabled services that provide value for our members and customers. LinkedIn revenue is mainly affected by demand from enterprises and professionals for subscriptions to Talent Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions offerings, as well as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content delivered to those members to drive Marketing Solutions.
Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), and supply chain management, as well as agentic AI and other low code application development platforms, for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications, including our low code development platforms, such as Power Apps and Power Automate.
Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, web-based and mobile application companies, AI-first application companies, as well as local application developers. We compete by providing secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud.
Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint competes with endpoint security solution providers.
Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors.
LinkedIn faces competition from online professional networks; recruiting, talent management, and human resource services companies; job boards; companies that provide learning and development products and services; online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers; and online and offline outlets for companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights.
Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers.
Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises:
Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services, comprising cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services; and Server products, comprising SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”), and other on-premises offerings.
Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device. Customers can use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, Internet of Things, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services.
Azure AI offerings provide a competitive advantage as companies seek ways to optimize and scale their business with AI. We offer supercomputing power for AI at scale to run large workloads, complemented by our rapidly expanding portfolio of AI cloud services (including the latest models) and hardware, which includes custom-built silicon and strong partnerships with chip manufacturers. Azure AI Foundry is a unified platform for developers to design, customize, and manage AI applications and agents.
Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to OEMs, and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights to certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue is reported along with the associated server product.
GitHub and Nuance Healthcare include both cloud and on-premises offerings. GitHub provides a collaboration platform for developers to manage code and incorporate AI and agent-based tools across the software development lifecycle. Nuance Healthcare provides AI solutions to the healthcare industry.
Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server solutions, Microsoft desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and ambient intelligent solutions, along with providing training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products.
Azure faces diverse competition from cloud service providers and open source offerings. Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. Our AI offerings compete with AI products from hyperscalers, as well as products from other emerging competitors and other open source offerings, many of which are also current or potential partners. Our Azure Security offerings include our cloud security solution and security information and event management solution, which compete with providers in the cybersecurity and cloud security space. We believe our cloud’s global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition.
Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware and nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system.
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity, security, hosting, database, and e-business servers.
Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from providers in the data and analytics industry. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from major technology providers, as well as open source alternatives.
We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.
Our Enterprise and partner services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies.
Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises:
Windows and Devices, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel) and Devices, comprising Surface and PC accessories.
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, and other cloud services.
Search and news advertising, comprising Bing and Copilot, Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates.
The Windows operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by:
The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.
Differences in device market demand between developed markets and growth markets.
Growth of the AI PC category.
Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.
Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large enterprises.
Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel.
Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.
Constraints in the supply chain of device components.
We design and sell devices, such as Surface (including Copilot+ PCs) and PC accessories. Our devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services. Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be more productive. Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories.
Microsoft is expanding how billions of people globally access and play video games on PC, console, mobile, and cloud. Our game content is developed through a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences. We continue to invest in gaming studios and content to expand our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content creators. These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of first- and third-party titles.
The gamer remains at the heart of the Xbox ecosystem. We are identifying new opportunities to attract gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and digital stores. We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that is most convenient to them. We are focused on growing the platform and expanding to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible.
Xbox enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base. Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising. Growth of our Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences.
Our Search and news advertising business is designed to deliver relevant search, native, and display advertising to a global audience. Microsoft Copilot is a digital companion designed to inform, entertain, and inspire. Our Microsoft Edge browser and Bing search engine with Copilot are key tools to enable user acquisition and engagement, while our technology platform enables accelerated delivery of digital advertising solutions. In addition to first-party tools, we have several partnerships with companies through which we provide and monetize search offerings. Growth depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content on advertising offerings.
Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity.
Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across various price points. Many of these manufacturers are also current or potential partners and customers, including our Windows OEMs.
Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services. We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms. Our gaming platform competes with other console platforms. We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital content offerings.
Our Search and news advertising business competes with search engines, and a wide array of websites, social platforms, and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users.
As of June 30, 2025, we employed approximately 228,000 people on a full-time basis, 125,000 in the U.S. and 103,000 internationally. Of the total employees, 89,000 were in operations, including product support and consulting services, datacenter operations, and manufacturing and distribution; 80,000 were in product research and development; 44,000 were in sales and marketing; and 15,000 were in general and administration. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.
We design our programs to attract, reward, and retain top talent while fostering continuous employee development and reinforcing our organizational culture and values. Our total compensation offering is both highly differentiated and competitive within the market, and we also monitor pay equity across multiple dimensions. We have invested significantly in employee wellbeing and offer a differentiated benefits package which includes many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs. We also provide access to continuous learning through a wide range of internal and external content, supporting professional growth across roles and disciplines. Through our employee listening systems, we gather direct feedback from our workforce, enabling us to adapt our programs and address employee needs globally with real-time insights. Additionally, our culture prioritizes the security of both our customers and Microsoft, embedding this responsibility across all teams and functions.
We have regional operations service centers in the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East that support our business operations, including customer contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections, customer lifecycle AI and cloud operations, and vendor management and logistics.
In addition to our operations centers, we also operate datacenters throughout each of these regions. We continue to align our datacenter locations and server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
We engage third-party manufacturers to produce our devices and have implemented measures to enhance supply chain efficiency and resilience, including the ability to relocate production geographically.
There are few qualified suppliers for certain components of our servers and devices. Extended or unforeseen disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to operate our datacenters and manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand.
Our success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new geographic and product markets, and drive broad adoption of our products and services. We make significant investments in research and development for new and existing products, services, and technologies, including tools and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, security, and operating systems.
We develop most of our products and services internally which allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing.
We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of product research and development activities, and as appropriate, we will coordinate our research and development across operating segments and leverage the results across the company. This includes continuing to support fundamental research, which provides us with a unique perspective on future trends and contributes to our innovation.
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual property in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or attracting and enabling our external development community. Our engagement with open source software also causes us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations.
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third-party relating to the development of our products.
Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, service providers, application developers, and OEMs. We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: direct, distributors and resellers, and OEMs. Our sales organization performs a variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services; and managing OEM relationships.
Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel. A large network of partner advisors support many of these sales.
We also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores. Additionally, our Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our partners and customers across industries.
Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (“LSP”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for reselling cloud services.
We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets. We distribute our devices through third-party retailers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support.
Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services.
We distribute our products and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and servers they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as Office and the capability to subscribe to Microsoft 365 Consumer.
There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest category of OEMs are direct OEMs as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs are system builders consisting of lower-volume PC manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft.
We offer options for organizations of varying sizes that want to purchase our cloud services and on-premises software. We license these organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. These volume licensing programs have varying programmatic requirements and benefits to best meet the needs of our customers.
Software Assurance (“SA”) conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period. It also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. SA is required to be purchased with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others.
Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement. Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license Microsoft products and services organization-wide over a three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses (covered with SA) and/or subscribe to cloud services.
Microsoft Customer Agreements are simplified purchase agreements presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience. Microsoft Customer Agreements are non-expiring agreements that are designed to support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or directly from Microsoft.
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. These agreements allow customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services.
Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses.
Open Value agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology. These agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a three-year period. Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included.
A Select Plus agreement is designed for government and academic organizations to acquire on-premises licenses at any affiliate or department level, while realizing advantages as one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional.
The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner. Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions.
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide hosted applications and software services to their end customers. Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on units licensed.
The Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users.
We are subject to a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U.S. and globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, advertising, and online content. These requirements are continually evolving, and they can be unclear and vary significantly across jurisdictions. We have implemented comprehensive compliance programs across our operations to adapt to these changes and to maintain customer and regulator confidence. We monitor regulatory developments around the world and implement policies, controls, and technical safeguards so that our operations, products, and services meet applicable legal standards. Our business teams, with legal support, manage the compliance programs and prepare external regulatory and commercial reporting, and our internal audit teams conduct reviews of the programs and processes. While we have a unified approach to regulatory compliance, some of the programs and processes are tailored to meet specific regulatory obligations, such as with the creation of independent compliance functions required by the European Union (“EU”) Digital Markets Act and the EU Digital Services Act, which oversee, monitor, and assess the company’s compliance with these acts.
For a description of the risks we face related to regulatory matters, refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K).
Mr. Nadella was appointed Chairman of the Board in June 2021 and Chief Executive Officer in February 2014. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise from July 2013 until that time. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadella’s roles also included Vice President of the Business Division.
Mr. Althoff was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in July 2021. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Commercial Business from July 2017 until that time. Prior to that, Mr. Althoff served as the President of Microsoft North America. Mr. Althoff joined Microsoft in March 2013 as President of Microsoft North America. Mr. Althoff also serves on the Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc.
Ms. Coleman was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in March 2025. She previously served as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Corporation Functions since January 2021. Prior to that, Ms. Coleman served as Vice President Human Resources and Corporate Functions since September 2020. Since joining Microsoft in 2009, Ms. Coleman has held various positions of increasing authority.
Ms. Hogan was appointed Executive Vice President, Office of Strategy and Transformation in March 2025. She previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since June 2023. Ms. Hogan had been Executive Vice President, Human Resources since November 2014. Prior to that, Ms. Hogan was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Services. She also served as Corporate Vice President of Customer Service and Support. Ms. Hogan joined Microsoft in 2003. Ms. Hogan also serves on the Board of Directors of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft Business Division. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization.
Mr. Numoto was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in October 2023. He served as Executive Vice President and Commercial Chief Marketing Officer from March 2020. Mr. Numoto served as a Corporate Vice President, Cloud Marketing from January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Numoto served as a Corporate Vice President for Office 365 Marketing from 2004, where he led the transformation from traditional on-premises packaged software to the introduction of Office 365. Since joining Microsoft in 1997, Mr. Numoto has held multiple roles in Windows Program Management and Office Marketing.
Mr. Smith was appointed Vice Chair and President in September 2021. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Legal Officer since September 2015. He served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from 2011 to 2015, and served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from 2001 to 2011. Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. Since joining Microsoft in 1993, he was Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith also serves on the Board of Directors of Netflix, Inc.
Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including:
Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at www.sec.gov.
Information on our business strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors.
Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available.
Press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news.
Corporate governance information including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate social responsibility initiatives, and other governance-related policies.
Other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting.
Opportunities to sign up for email alerts to have information pushed in real time.
We publish a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports Hub website, www.microsoft.com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on responsible AI, sustainability, responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement.
The information found on these websites is not part of, or incorporated by reference into, this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and the trading price of our common stock.
We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers, we may not remain competitive, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models.
A material part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. We and our competitors continue to devote significant resources to developing and deploying cloud-based strategies and services for consumers and business customers, and pricing and delivery models are evolving.
We are investing in artificial intelligence (“AI”) across the entire company and infusing generative AI capabilities into our consumer and commercial offerings. AI technology and services are a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and new competitors continue to enter the market. We will bear significant development and operational costs to build and support the AI models, services, platforms, and infrastructure necessary to meet the needs of our customers. To compete effectively we must also be responsive to technological change, new and potential regulatory developments, and public scrutiny.
Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business models, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at little or no cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, developing, making available, or using AI models that are open, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open source products. Some open source products mimic the features and functionality of our products.
The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our focus on cloud-based and AI services presents execution and competitive risks.
Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based and AI services and products that generate increasing traffic and market share.
Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based and AI services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices.
Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.
Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations and specific requirements of our customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs.
Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
It is uncertain whether our strategies will continue to attract users or generate the revenue required to succeed. If we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. This could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our AI systems offer users powerful tools and capabilities. However, there may be instances where these systems are used in ways that are unintended or inappropriate. In addition, some users may also engage in fraudulent or abusive activities through our cloud-based and AI services, such as unauthorized account access, payment fraud, or terms of service violations including cryptocurrency mining or launching cyberattacks. While we are committed to detecting and controlling such misuse of our cloud-based and AI services, our efforts may not be effective, and we may incur reputational damage or experience adverse impacts to our business and results of operations.
We make significant investments in products and services that may not achieve expected returns.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances could have an adverse effect on our business.
Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position.
Threats to security can take a variety of forms. Threat actors, including individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including nation-states, state-sponsored organizations, or cybercriminal groups, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our internal infrastructure, and we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in which such actors have gained unauthorized access to our systems and data, including customer systems and data. These actors use a wide variety of methods, which include developing and deploying malicious software; exploiting known and potential vulnerabilities or intentionally designed processes in our or third-party hardware, software, or other infrastructure to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters; using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose sensitive information, such as passwords, or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data; or acting in a coordinated manner or conducting coordinated attacks. For example, as previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 19, 2024 and amended on March 8, 2024, beginning in late November 2023, a nation-state associated threat actor used a password spray attack to compromise a legacy test account and, in turn, gain access to Microsoft email accounts. The threat actor used information it obtained to gain unauthorized access to some of our source code repositories and internal systems, and the threat actor could continue to utilize this and other information to attempt to gain access to our systems or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. This incident has and may continue to result in harm to our reputation and customer relationships. Nation-state and state-sponsored actors can sustain malicious activities for extended periods and deploy significant resources to plan and carry out attacks. Nation-state attacks against us, our customers, or our partners have and may continue to intensify due to our transparency to our customers, other stakeholders, and the public about cyberattacks, and during elections or periods of intense diplomatic or armed conflict. Challenges or failures in applying security patches to all hardware and devices connected to our systems, including end-of-life and end-of-support equipment, have and may continue to result in unauthorized access to our systems and data in the future. Cyber incidents and attacks, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, competitive position, and reputation, or expose us to legal or regulatory risk.
Inadequate account security or organizational security practices, including those of companies we have acquired or those of the third parties we utilize, have resulted and may result in unauthorized access to our systems and data, including customer systems and data. For example, passwords may not be rotated and employee access may not be updated or removed on a timely basis. Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users’ security or systems or reveal confidential information, and laws in foreign jurisdictions may compel actions by such parties against our interests and could limit our recourse. Malicious actors may employ the supply chain to introduce malware through software updates or compromised supplier accounts or hardware.
Cyberthreats are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Threat actors may also utilize emerging technologies, such as AI and machine learning. Our current capabilities may not detect certain vulnerabilities or new attack methods, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. It may be difficult to determine the best way to investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate the harm caused by a cyber incident. Such efforts may not be successful, and we may make errors or fail to take necessary actions. It is possible that threat actors may gain undetected access to other networks and systems after establishing a foothold on an internal system. Cyber incidents and attacks can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems, as well as those of our partners and customers. In addition, it may take considerable time for us to investigate and evaluate the full impact of incidents, particularly for sophisticated attacks. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to provide prompt, full, and reliable information about the incident to our customers, partners, regulators, and the public. Breaches of our facilities, network, or data security can disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, subject us to ransomware attacks, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies or remediate the impacts of attacks, or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, actions taken to remediate an incident could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions of our services.
Our internal environment continues to evolve. Often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Increasing use of generative AI models in our internal systems may create new attack surfaces or methods for adversaries. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge or the emerging cybersecurity regulations in jurisdictions worldwide.
The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services across cloud and on-premises environments. Security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us, whose business is providing technology products and services to others. Threats to or attacks on our own infrastructure, such as the nation-state attack described in the prior risk factor, have also affected our customers and may do so in the future. The reliability of our cloud-based services and the protection of customer data depend on the security of our infrastructure, which includes hardware and other elements provided by third parties. Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, as well as customers with sensitive data, and we expect that to continue. In addition, adversaries can attack our customers’ on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown (“zero-day”) vulnerabilities. Product vulnerabilities can persist even after we have issued security patches if customers have not installed the most recent updates, or if the attackers exploited the vulnerabilities before patching to install additional malware to further compromise customers’ systems. Adversaries will continue to attack customers using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation. Adversaries that acquire user account information can use that information to compromise our users’ accounts, including where accounts share the same attributes such as passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or other malicious software impacting a customer’s use of our products or services. Weaknesses in our development processes can result in vulnerabilities in our products. Open source software can also contain vulnerabilities that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks as we increasingly incorporate open source software into our products. Additionally, features that rely on generative AI can be susceptible to security threats.
Our customers operate complex systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors that may include systems acquired over many years. They expect our products and services to support all these systems and products, including those that no longer incorporate the strongest current security advances or standards. As a result, we may not be able to discontinue support in our services for a product, service, standard, or feature solely because a more secure alternative is available. Failure to utilize the most current security advances and standards can increase our customers’ vulnerability to attack. Further, customers of widely varied sizes and technical sophistication use our technology, and consequently may still have limited capabilities and resources to help them adopt and implement state-of-the-art cybersecurity practices and technologies. In addition, we must account for this wide variation of technical sophistication when defining default settings for our products and services, including security default settings, as these settings may limit or otherwise impact other aspects of operations and some customers may have limited capability to review and reset these defaults.
Cyberattacks could adversely impact our customers even if our production services are not directly compromised. We are committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we become aware and have actionable information for customers to help protect themselves. We are also committed to providing guidance and support on detection, tracking, and remediation. We may not be able to detect the existence or extent of these attacks for all of our customers or have information on how to detect or track an attack, especially where an attack involves on-premises software such as Exchange Server where we may have no or limited visibility into our customers’ computing environments.
Any of the foregoing events could result in reputational harm, loss of revenue, increased costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
To defend against security threats to our internal infrastructure, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must take a complex and multifaceted approach. This includes continuously engineering more secure products and services, and enhancing security, threat detection, and reliability features. We must also escalate and improve our development processes and the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others in a timely manner. In addition, we must develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, and maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services. Further, we must provide security tools such as firewalls, anti-virus software, and advanced security and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
Our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem of third parties. If there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could experience adverse impacts to our results of operations, reputation, or competitive position.
Disclosure and misuse of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation.
As we continue to grow the number, breadth, and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personal data of our customers and users. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage. Relatedly, despite our efforts to continuously improve security controls, it is possible that we may fail to identify or mitigate insider threat activities that could lead to the misuse of our systems or customer and user data. In addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways. Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or in a cloud-based environment we host. Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders. In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may increase costs or hinder sales of our products and services.
Abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement.
For platform products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. This activity may come from users impersonating other people or organizations, including through the use of AI technologies, dissemination of information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends. Preventing or responding to these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our consumer services as well as our enterprise services may be used to find, generate, store, or disseminate harmful or illegal content in violation of our terms or applicable law. We may not proactively discover such content due to scale, the limitations of existing technologies, and conflicting legal frameworks. When discovered by users and others, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement. Regulations and other initiatives have been enacted to make platforms responsible for preventing or eliminating harmful content online, and we expect this to continue with focused attention on child safety. At the same time, regulations and other initiatives regarding freedom of expression may conflict with such content moderation regulations. The legal and regulatory environment in this area is complex and continues to evolve across multiple jurisdictions. As a result, there is considerable uncertainty regarding both current and future compliance obligations. Failure to comply with content requirements may subject us to enhanced regulatory oversight, civil or criminal liability, or reputational damage, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our products and services, how they are used by customers, and how third-party products and services interact with them, may present security, privacy, and execution risks.
Our products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes. For example, customers control our products and services, including our AI products, within their environments, and may deploy them in high-risk scenarios or utilize them inappropriately. Our products may also collect large amounts of data in manners which may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. Our customers also operate complex systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors whose products or personnel may take or fail to take actions which impact the reliability or security of our products and services. If our products and services do not work as intended, are utilized in methods not intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. These risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation, or adversely affect our results of operations.
We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure.
Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units and other components. The cost or availability of these dependencies could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including the transition to a clean energy economy, local and regional environmental regulations, and geopolitical disruptions. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth and the augmentation of existing services, including through the incorporation of AI features and/or functionality. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex, and requires development of principles for datacenter builds in geographies with higher safety and reliability risks. It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, outages, insufficient Internet connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power or water supply, or inadequate storage and compute capacity could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
We may experience supply or quality problems.
There are limited suppliers for certain device and datacenter components. We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Capacity available to us may be affected as competitors use some of the same suppliers and materials for hardware components. If components are delayed or become unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes that restrict supply sources, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity to support the delivery and continued development of our products and services. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. Datacenter servers, Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our software products and services also have and may in the future experience quality or reliability problems. The processes we use to develop our software are imperfect. Like all software, our software contains bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Our customers increasingly rely on us for critical business functions and multiple workloads. Many of our products and services are interdependent on one another. Our products and services may be impacted by interaction with third-party products and services. Our customers may also utilize their own or third-party products and services whose reliability is dependent on interaction with our products and services. Each of these circumstances potentially magnifies the impact of quality or reliability issues. Weaknesses in our processes could result in defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing, which could cause reduced sales, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge.
Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design and market are highly complex. Failure to prevent, detect, or address defects in design, manufacture, or associated software could result in recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We are subject to a variety of new, existing, and evolving legal and regulatory requirements that could adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U.S. and globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, digital accessibility, advertising, and online safety. Laws in several jurisdictions, including EU Member State laws under the European Electronic Communications Code, increasingly define certain of our services as regulated services. This trend may continue with our offerings becoming subject to additional data protection, security, digital safety, law enforcement surveillance, and other obligations. Regulators and private litigants may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data and other information is inconsistent with their laws and regulations, including laws that apply to the tracking of users via technology such as cookies. In addition, laws requiring us to retrieve and produce customer data in response to compulsory legal demands from law enforcement and governmental authorities are expanding and the requests we are experiencing are increasing in volume and complexity.
New, existing, and evolving laws and regulations, or interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our interpretations of such laws and regulations or our practices, may result in modification of our products and services, altered business models and operations, increased costs, reputational damage, and civil or criminal liability. Examples include laws and regulations regarding:
Competition laws and new market regulation:
Government agencies closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations and enacting new regulations to intervene in digital markets, and this includes markets such as the EU, the United Kingdom, the U.S., and China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. U.S. and foreign antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. Competition law enforcement actions and court decisions along with new market regulations may result in fines or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that comes from them. New competition law actions or obligations under market regulation schemes could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent.
Legislative and regulatory action is emerging in AI, which could increase costs or restrict opportunity. For example, the EU’s AI Act may increase costs or impact the provision or operation of our AI models and services in the European market. AI regulatory areas include model and system development and deployment, frontier model safety, transparency, and content provenance.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of the FCPA require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our business activities and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. Periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them and also cooperate with investigations by U.S. and foreign law enforcement authorities.
Increasing trade laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements also affect our operations in and outside the U.S. relating to trade and investment. Economic sanctions in the U.S., the EU, and other countries prohibit most business with restricted entities or countries. U.S. export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries. U.S. import controls restrict us from integrating certain information and communication technologies into our supply chain and allow for government review of transactions involving information and communications technology from countries determined to be foreign adversaries. Supply chain regulations may impact the availability of goods or result in additional regulatory scrutiny. Restrictions on data flows and outbound investment and customer sensitivities may limit our ability to leverage parts of our global engineering footprint to provide services in certain jurisdictions. Increased geopolitical instabilities and changing U.S. Administration priorities create an unpredictable trade landscape. U.S. tariff and shifting AI export controls policies, like the AI Diffusion Rule, could increase operational costs, create uncertainty in the continuity of our products, and accelerate sovereignty initiatives among international partners and customers. The volatility of U.S. tariffs has triggered economic uncertainty and could impact cloud and devices supply chain cost competitiveness. The potential replacement of the recently rescinded AI Diffusion Rule and other potential AI-related rulemakings could adversely affect Microsoft’s business, strategy, and operations. Periods of intense diplomatic or armed conflict like the ongoing conflict in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas conflict could result in (1) new and rapidly evolving sanctions and trade restrictions, which may impair trade with sanctioned individuals and countries, and (2) negative impacts to regional trade ecosystems among our customers, partners, and us.
Legislative and regulatory actions related to cybersecurity may increase the costs associated with developing, implementing, or securing our products and services. The legal and regulatory environment in this area is complex and continues to evolve across multiple jurisdictions. As a result, there is considerable uncertainty regarding both current and future compliance obligations. This uncertainty increases the risk that we may incur additional operational costs, face regulatory enforcement actions, or encounter challenges in the development and deployment of our products.
Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data globally continue to evolve. The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies on the movement of data across national boundaries. Data protection authorities and governments in the EU and other markets have and may again restrict and/or block the use of services that involve the transfer of data across borders. New and evolving rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services. In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and other similar regulations impose a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. New requirements related to the use of data, including the Data Act, add additional rules and restrictions on the use of data in our products and services.
Laws, regulations, and policies relating to environmental, social, and governance matters are being developed and formalized in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere, which may include greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage caps, as well as specific, target-driven environmental, social, and governance frameworks and disclosure requirements. In addition, in 2020 we announced goals to become carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste by 2030. Any failure or perceived failure to meet our sustainability goals, or to meet various sustainability regulatory requirements, could result in claims and lawsuits, regulatory actions, penalties, or damage to our reputation, each of which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
How these laws and regulations apply to our business is often unclear, subject to change, and sometimes may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, governments’ approach to enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. Compliance with existing, expanding, or new laws and regulations may involve significant costs and operational efforts, or require changes in products or business practices that could adversely affect our results of operations. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties, criminal sanctions, or orders to cease the alleged noncompliant activity. If our products do not meet customer expectations or legal requirements, we could face regulatory or legal actions, and our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.
We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases, AI services, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, employment practices, and regulation. As we continue to expand our business and offerings, we may experience new and novel legal claims. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. An adverse impact to our financial condition and results of operations could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
Our business with government customers may present additional uncertainties.
We derive substantial revenue from government contracts. Government contracts and regulatory requirements can present risks and challenges not present in private commercial agreements. For instance, we are subject to government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, and we are required to provide assurance and attestations about our products and processes. If we do not satisfy contractual or regulatory requirements, we could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded. Some agreements may allow a government to terminate without cause and provide for higher liability limits for certain losses. Some contracts may be subject to periodic funding approval, reductions, cancellations, or delays which could adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. These events could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation.
We may have additional tax liabilities.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities due to changes in tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices and principles, including changes to the global tax framework, in various jurisdictions. In recent years, multiple domestic and international tax proposals were proposed to impose greater tax burdens on large multinational enterprises. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development continues to advance proposals or guidance in international taxation, including the establishment of a global minimum tax.
We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. Although we believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken. In addition, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. We are currently under IRS audit for prior tax years and have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS for the tax years 2004 to 2013. The primary issues in the NOPAs relate to intercompany transfer pricing. In the NOPAs, the IRS is seeking an additional tax payment of $28.9 billion plus penalties and interest. The final resolution of the proposed adjustments, and other audits or litigation, may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and adversely affect our results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made.
We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S. A change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other global fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the U.S., and changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We face risks related to the protection and utilization of our intellectual property that may result in our business and operating results being harmed.
Protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software, source code, and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights.
Changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology. Our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. If our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. It may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Unauthorized access to or disclosure of source code or other intellectual property also increases the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors.
Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property.
From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights, including current copyright infringement and other claims arising from AI training and output. To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty-bearing data access or licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Adverse outcomes could also include monetary damages or injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like.
Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, content, or development and deployment of AI.
Data security breaches, cybersecurity incidents, responsible AI failures, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.
Social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. If our brands or reputation are damaged, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees.
Adverse economic or market conditions could harm our business.
Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our results of operations. If demand for computing power, PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption.
Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities. If global financial markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio could be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced a decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions could disrupt our business.
A disruption or failure of our systems, operations, or supply chain because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are seismically active regions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or systems, or the infrastructure or systems they rely on, such as power grids, could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations or adversely affect our results of operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans and magnifies the potential negative consequences of prolonged service outages.
Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, pose economic and other risks, which may negatively impact our ability to sell to and collect from customers, increase our operating costs, or otherwise disrupt our operations in markets both directly and indirectly impacted by such events. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. Geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory systems and requirements and market interventions that could impact our operating strategies, access to national, regional, and global markets, hiring, and profitability. Geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers. Any of these changes could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in geopolitical conditions also increase the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors.
The occurrence of regional epidemics or a global pandemic, such as COVID-19, could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The extent to which global pandemics impact our business going forward will depend on factors such as the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic; and the impact on economic activity, including the possibility of recession or financial market instability. Measures to contain a global pandemic may intensify other risks described in these Risk Factors.
The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and the IT industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand, or available sources of energy or other resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks.
Our customers, employees, and infrastructure are located throughout the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature of our business creates operational, economic, and geopolitical risks. Global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, geopolitical tension, particularly between the U.S. and Europe, restrictions on international trade, such as tariffs and other controls on imports or exports, inflation, and recession, as well as political and military disputes, could adversely affect our results of operations. Non-compliance with sanctions as well as general ecosystem disruptions could result in reputational harm, operational delays, monetary fines, loss of revenue, increased costs, loss of export privileges, or criminal sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Emerging nationalist and protectionist trends and concerns about human rights, the environment, and political expression in specific countries may significantly alter the trade and commercial environments. Changes to trade policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, and non-local sourcing restrictions, export controls, investment restrictions, or other developments that make it more difficult to operate and sell our products in foreign countries. Disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services, impair our ability to operate in certain regions, or increase operating costs. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2025 that remain unresolved.
Microsoft plays a central role in the world’s digital ecosystem. We have made it the top corporate priority to protect the computing environment used by our customers and employees and to support the resiliency of our cloud infrastructure and services, products, devices, and our internal corporate resources from determined adversaries. In response to the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape, we launched the Secure Future Initiative (“SFI”) in November 2023 and expanded the scope of SFI in May 2024. The SFI focuses our business strategy and efforts on continual improvement in cybersecurity protection, and is aligned around three security principles:
Security comes first when designing any product or service.
Security protections are enabled and enforced by default, require no extra effort, and are not optional.
Security controls and monitoring will continuously be improved to meet current and future threats.
Our computing environments, products, and services are reviewed by our internal audit teams as well as independent third-party assessors. We are committed to managing the most significant risks to our strategies and ambitions, including cybersecurity risks. The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) organization supports management in this commitment by facilitating the semiannual risk assessment, which documents the priority and status of these risks and aligns them with our strategic mitigation efforts.
ERM is structured using a framework based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organization (“COSO”) guidance on Enterprise Risk Management Integrating Strategy with Performance and it also aligns with the International Organization for Standardization 31000:2018 Risk Management Standard.
We continuously monitor our computing environments, products, and services for vulnerabilities and signs of compromise, and we utilize our own security products to combat cybersecurity threats. We integrate security into our computing environments, products, and services through our Security Development Lifecycle (“SDL”). Our SDL introduces security and privacy considerations throughout all phases of our development process and through the adoption of zero-trust end-to-end architecture. We utilize machine learning and AI-powered security tools to gain insights from 84 trillion signals per day. We track over 1,500 unique threat actors, including more than 600 nation-state actors, 300 cybercriminal groups, 200 influence operation groups, and hundreds of others. To support our efforts, we operate a Cyber Defense Operations Center connected to over 10,000 security and threat intelligence experts, including engineers, researchers, data scientists, cybersecurity experts, threat hunters, geopolitical analysts, investigators, and frontline responders across the globe.
When appropriate, we utilize external service providers to assess, test, or otherwise assist our program. We also leverage third parties by working with external researchers, operating bug bounty programs, and managing coordinated vulnerability disclosure programs with security organizations.
We maintain a systematic approach to assessing and controlling the cybersecurity risks presented by third-party service providers. We require third-party service providers to manage their cybersecurity risks in defined ways, undergo cybersecurity reviews, notify us of cyber events, and satisfy additional contractual requirements.
We seek to improve the entire cybersecurity ecosystem through multistakeholder diplomacy to set and uphold expectations for state behavior, advancement of government policy that strengthens cybersecurity and resiliency, disruption and deterrence of cybercrime, protection of national security interests, and disruption of digital threats to democracies. We also establish processes and innovate solutions for us and our customers to address the growing number and complexity of cybersecurity regulations.
When we experience a cybersecurity incident, we utilize our well-established incident response plans that operate both across the company and at the product and services level. Incidents are first triaged for severity, and then more deeply assessed to establish a plan of record and activate internal and external notification, disclosure, and communication plans, as applicable. Engineering and development resources are mobilized to resolve or remediate the incident. After the incident is resolved, a comprehensive post-incident review process is conducted.
We describe the risks from cybersecurity threats, including previous cybersecurity incidents, in section “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). As of the date of this Form 10-K, we do not believe any risks from cybersecurity threats have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our results of operations or financial condition.
However, the cybersecurity threat environment is increasingly challenging, and we, along with the entire digital ecosystem, are under constant and increasing threat. As discussed above, our business strategy is tied to the SFI and we are committed to continuously monitoring cybersecurity threats, enhancing the security of our products, investing in our cybersecurity infrastructure, and collaborating with peers, customers, service providers, regulators, and governments to advance our and the entire digital ecosystem’s cybersecurity defenses and resiliency.
Our Board of Directors oversees cybersecurity risk.
Cybersecurity reviews by the Board are scheduled to occur at least quarterly, or more frequently as determined to be necessary or advisable.
Presentations to the Board of Directors are made by senior management, including our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), our EVP of Microsoft Security, our EVP of Cloud + AI, and the head of our Customer Security and Trust organization.
The presentations address topics such as cybersecurity threats, incidents, top risks and related remediation efforts, results from internal and third-party assessments, progress towards risk-mitigation goals, the functioning of our incident response program, regulatory developments, and digital diplomacy efforts.
In addition, we have an escalation process in place to inform senior management and the Board of significant issues. Cybersecurity issues are also considered during separate Board meeting discussions regarding important matters like ERM, audit issues, operational budgeting, business continuity planning, mergers and acquisitions, brand management, and other relevant matters.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Before joining Microsoft, our CISO served in a prior Chief Technology Officer role as well as in senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles within multiple organizations.
The CGC responsibilities include approving our enterprise security risk assessment process and results, determining the appropriate cybersecurity risk level and mitigations, reviewing the NIST CSF alignment, and supporting compliance with cybersecurity regulations. Our cybersecurity efforts are supported directly by Microsoft’s security and threat intelligence experts and our employees across the company, all of whom receive cybersecurity awareness training and education and are expected to support our efforts.
Our corporate headquarters are located in Redmond, Washington. We have approximately 15 million square feet of space located in King County, Washington that is used for engineering, sales, marketing, and operations, among other general and administrative purposes. These facilities include approximately 12 million square feet of owned space situated on approximately 530 acres of land we own at our corporate headquarters, and approximately 3 million square feet of space we lease.
We own and lease other facilities domestically and internationally, primarily for offices, datacenters, and research and development. The largest owned international properties include space in the following locations: China, India, Ireland, and the Netherlands. The largest leased international properties include space in the following locations: Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Refer to Research and Development (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion of our research and development facilities.
The table below shows a summary of the square footage of our properties owned and leased domestically and internationally as of June 30, 2025:
Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July 24, 2025, there were 77,014 registered holders of record of our common stock.
All share repurchases were made using cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards.
On September 16, 2024, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $60.0 billion in share repurchases. This share repurchase program commenced in April 2025, following completion of the program approved on September 14, 2021, has no expiration date, and may be terminated at any time.
Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025:
We returned $9.4 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025. Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends.
In May 2025, as consideration for the acquisition of a business, we issued 117,623 shares of common stock to the seller in connection with the closing in reliance on exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) thereof because the issuance of securities did not involve a public offering.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended June 30, 2025 compared to the year ended June 30, 2024. For a discussion of the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to the year ended June 30, 2023, please refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2024 and our Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2024.
Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.
We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling devices. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; supporting and investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter operations; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products and services; and income taxes.
Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth of 15%.
Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 11% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue growth of 11%.
Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 15% driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 19%.
Server products and cloud services revenue increased 23% driven by Azure and other cloud services revenue growth of 34%.
Windows OEM and Devices revenue increased 3%.
Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces.
Microsoft and OpenAI maintain a long-term strategic partnership originally established in 2019. Microsoft is a major investor in OpenAI, and the companies have reciprocal revenue-sharing arrangements. We hold rights to OpenAI’s intellectual property, including models and infrastructure, for integration into our products. The OpenAI API is exclusive to Azure, runs on Azure, and is available through the Azure OpenAI Service. We also have a right of first refusal on OpenAI's new capacity needs.
The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access services in the cloud and, in some cases, the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment.
Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow one’s career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits.
Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies did not have a material impact on reported revenue and expenses from our international operations in fiscal year 2025.
Further, global, regional, and local economic developments and changes in global trade policies such as restrictions on international trade, including tariffs and other controls on imports or exports, could result in increased supply chain challenges, cost volatility, and consumer and economic uncertainty which may adversely affect our results of operations.
Refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors and other risks.
Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Fourth quarter revenue is driven by a higher volume of multi-year contracts executed during the period.
We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting.
In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business during fiscal year 2025.
Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Financial metrics are calculated based on financial results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last fiscal year.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we made updates to our metrics in connection with the segment changes described above. These changes align our metrics with how we manage and monitor certain businesses. The key change was bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together and creating a new Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth metric. Other changes include combining Windows OEM and Devices into a single revenue growth metric that brings revenue from PC market-driven businesses together, as well as elevating our cloud revenue growth metrics to align to our strategic focus on cloud growth.
Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics products and cloud services, and Enterprise and partner services. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance.
Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The metrics primarily reflect growth across our cloud services.
Metrics related to our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of our key consumer businesses.
Revenue increased $36.6 billion or 15% with growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud. More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Gaming and Search and news advertising.
Operating expenses increased $3.8 billion or 6% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $10.8 billion or 14%. Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue grew 15% with Microsoft 365 Commercial seat growth of 6% driven by small and medium businesses and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user. Microsoft 365 Commercial products revenue grew 7% driven by the Windows Commercial on-premises components of Microsoft 365 suite sales and an increase in Office transactional purchasing with the launch of Office 2024.
Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $756 million or 11%. Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue grew 11% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriber growth of 8% to 89.0 million, as well as growth in revenue per user from the price increase announced in January 2025.
LinkedIn revenue increased $1.4 billion or 9% with growth across all lines of business.
Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $996 million or 15% driven by growth in Dynamics 365, offset in part by a decline in Dynamics on-premises products. Dynamics 365 revenue grew 19% with growth across all workloads.
Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 4% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and commercial sales.
Server products and cloud services revenue increased $18.6 billion or 23% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 34% driven by demand for our portfolio of services. Server products revenue decreased 3% driven by a decrease in transactional purchasing with continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
Enterprise and partner services revenue increased $166 million or 2% driven by growth in Enterprise Support Services, offset in part by a decline in Industry Solutions.
Operating expenses increased $1.5 billion or 7% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering.
Windows and Devices revenue increased $288 million or 2%. Windows OEM and Devices revenue increased 3% driven by growth in Windows OEM, offset in part by a decline in Devices.
Gaming revenue increased $2.0 billion or 9% driven by growth in Xbox content and services, offset in part by a decline in Xbox hardware. Xbox content and services revenue increased 16% driven by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition and Xbox Game Pass. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 25% driven by lower volume of consoles sold.
Search and news advertising revenue increased $1.6 billion or 13%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 20% driven by higher search volume and higher revenue per search.
Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion or 9% driven by Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include technology development costs, including AI training and other infrastructure costs, third-party development and programming costs, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content.
Research and development expenses increased $3.0 billion or 10% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.2 billion or 5% driven by investments in commercial sales and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, employee severance expense incurred as part of a corporate program, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees.
General and administrative expenses decreased $386 million or 5% driven by Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
The components of other income (expense), net were as follows:
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
Interest and dividends income decreased primarily due to lower portfolio balances. Interest expense decreased primarily due to maturities of commercial paper and higher capitalization of debt interest expense, offset in part by higher finance lease interest expense. Net recognized losses on investments increased primarily due to higher impairments, offset in part by higher gains on equity investments in the current period. Net losses on derivatives increased primarily due to higher losses on equity derivatives in the current period. Other, net primarily reflects net recognized losses on equity method investments, including OpenAI.
Our effective tax rate for both fiscal years 2025 and 2024 was 18%. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025 was primarily impacted by changes in the mix of our earnings and tax expenses between the U.S. and foreign countries.
Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations center in Ireland.
The mix of income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries impacted our effective tax rate as a result of the geographic distribution of, and customer demand for, our products and services. In fiscal year 2025, our U.S. income before income taxes was $69.2 billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $54.4 billion. In fiscal year 2024, our U.S. income before income taxes was $62.9 billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $44.9 billion.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) published its model rules “Tax Challenges Arising From the Digitalisation of the Economy - Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)” which established a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% for certain multinational enterprises. Many countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing the Pillar Two legislation, which applies to Microsoft beginning in fiscal year 2025. While we do not currently estimate a material impact to our consolidated financial statements, we continue to monitor the impact as countries implement legislation and the OECD provides additional guidance.
We are currently assessing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (“OBBBA”) which was enacted on July 4, 2025. The OBBBA provides a U.S. global intangible low-taxed income effective tax rate of 14% effective fiscal year 2027 for Microsoft. It also provides bonus depreciation for certain assets placed into service after January 19, 2025 and an election to expense U.S. incurred research or experimental expenditures.
We remain under audit by the IRS for tax years 2014 to 2017. With respect to the audit for tax years 2004 to 2013, on September 26, 2023, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS. The primary issues in the NOPAs relate to intercompany transfer pricing. In the NOPAs, the IRS is seeking an additional tax payment of $28.9 billion plus penalties and interest. As of June 30, 2025, we believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We disagree with the proposed adjustments and will vigorously contest the NOPAs through the IRS’s administrative appeals office and, if necessary, judicial proceedings. We do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our income tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months.
We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S., some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. Our operations in Ireland remain subject to examination for tax years 2020 and thereafter.
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $94.6 billion and $75.5 billion as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Equity and other investments were $15.4 billion and $14.6 billion as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities.
In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.
A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.
Cash from operations increased $17.6 billion to $136.2 billion for fiscal year 2025, primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees and cash used to pay income taxes. Cash used in financing increased $13.9 billion to $51.7 billion for fiscal year 2025, primarily due to a $9.5 billion increase in cash used for repayments of debt, net of proceeds. Cash used in investing decreased $24.4 billion to $72.6 billion for fiscal year 2025, primarily due to a $63.2 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired and divestitures, and purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by a $22.3 billion increase in cash used in net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, and a $20.1 billion increase in additions to property and equipment.
We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 10 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and Software Assurance (“SA”). Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30, 2025:
If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Refer to Note 12 – Unearned Revenue of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
The following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of June 30, 2025:
Refer to Note 6 – Property and Equipment of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Purchase commitments primarily relate to datacenters and include open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as construction commitments above.
As a result of the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. As of June 30, 2025, our eighth transition tax installment of $4.4 billion is short-term and payable in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026.
During fiscal years 2025 and 2024, we repurchased 31 million shares and 32 million shares of our common stock for $13.0 billion and $12.0 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. As of June 30, 2025, $57.3 billion remained of our $60 billion share repurchase program. Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
During fiscal years 2025 and 2024, our Board of Directors declared dividends totaling $24.7 billion and $22.3 billion, respectively. We intend to continue returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends, subject to declaration by our Board of Directors. Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We will continue to invest in capital expenditures to support growth in our cloud offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure and training. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources.
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have critical accounting estimates in the areas of revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, legal and other contingencies, and income taxes.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP.
Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers.
Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented.
We review debt investments quarterly for credit losses and impairment. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit.
Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.
Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a software product to be marketed or sold to external users are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products.
The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.
The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entity’s financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented in this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based on management’s estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to provide reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an organizational structure providing division of responsibilities, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal audits.
The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee.
We are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. We use derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements.
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions, including hedges. Principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar.
Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices.
Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices to facilitate portfolio diversification.
Securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to price risk.
The following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices:
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operations:
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business during fiscal year 2025. These changes primarily impacted Note 8 – Goodwill, Note 12 – Unearned Revenue, and Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
The recast of prior period information had no impact on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated income statements, or consolidated cash flows statements.
Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples of estimates and assumptions include: for revenue recognition, determining the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations, and determining the standalone selling price ("SSP") of performance obligations, variable consideration, and other obligations such as product returns and refunds; loss contingencies; the fair value of and/or potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; when technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the potential outcome of uncertain tax positions that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns; and determining the timing and amount of impairments for investments. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management’s estimates and assumptions due to risks and uncertainties.
Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to other comprehensive income.
Product revenue includes sales from operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, video games, and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, and gaming; solution support; and consulting services. Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer. Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources. When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”). SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently. On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA. Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
Revenue from search advertising is recognized when the advertisement appears in the search results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been completed. Revenue from consulting services is recognized as services are provided.
Our hardware is generally highly dependent on, and interrelated with, the underlying operating system and cannot function without the operating system. In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue by significant product and service offering.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP.
Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers.
Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented.
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. We record a receivable when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or unearned revenue when revenue is recognized subsequent to invoicing. For multi-year agreements, we generally invoice customers annually at the beginning of each annual coverage period. We record a receivable related to revenue recognized for multi-year on-premises licenses as we have an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment in the future related to those licenses.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and SA. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future, LinkedIn subscriptions, Office 365 subscriptions, Xbox subscriptions, Windows post-delivery support, Dynamics business solutions, and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 12 – Unearned Revenue for further information, including unearned revenue by segment and changes in unearned revenue during the period.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers or to provide customers with financing. Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
We record an allowance for doubtful accounts which reflects our best estimate of credit losses inherent in the accounts receivable and financing receivable balances. We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence.
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. We have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other current and long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
We apply a practical expedient to expense costs as incurred for costs to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs include our internal sales organization compensation program and certain partner sales incentive programs as we have determined annual compensation is commensurate with annual sales activities.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the depreciation and amortization of assets used to conduct research and development. Such costs related to software development are included in research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our software products is generally shortly before the products are released to production. Once technological feasibility is reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the estimated lives of the products.
Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance stock units (“PSUs”), is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service or performance period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. We measure the fair value of PSUs using a Monte Carlo valuation model. Compensation cost for RSUs is recognized using the straight-line method and for PSUs is recognized using the accelerated method.
Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) is measured as the discount the employee is entitled to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of purchase.
Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes, and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term in our consolidated balance sheets.
We consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations.
Debt investments are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in fair value, excluding credit losses and impairments, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Fair value is calculated based on publicly available market information or other estimates determined by management. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. To determine credit losses, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.
Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured at fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments (referred to as the measurement alternative). We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis and recognize an impairment if there are sufficient indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. Changes in value are recorded in other income (expense), net.
Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.
For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other income (expense), net with offsetting gains and losses on the hedged items. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized in other income (expense), net with the corresponding hedged item. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains and losses from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
We account for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market. We categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:
We measure equity investments without readily determinable fair values on a nonrecurring basis. The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections.
Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, other current liabilities, and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the estimated rate of interest for collateralized borrowing over a similar term of the lease payments at commencement date. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For certain equipment leases, such as vehicles, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
Our intangible assets are subject to amortization and are amortized over the estimated useful life in proportion to the economic benefits received. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired.
In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard to improve reportable segment disclosures. The guidance expands the disclosures required for reportable segments in our annual and interim consolidated financial statements, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. We adopted the standard beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2025. The adoption resulted in incremental segment reporting disclosures, most notably disclosure of cost of revenue and operating expenses for each reportable segment. Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
In December 2023, the FASB issued a new standard to improve income tax disclosures. The guidance requires disclosure of disaggregated income taxes paid, prescribes standardized categories for the components of the effective tax rate reconciliation, and modifies other income tax-related disclosures. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2026, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our income tax disclosures.
In November 2024, the FASB issued a new standard to expand disclosures about income statement expenses. The guidance requires disaggregation of certain costs and expenses included in each relevant expense caption on our consolidated income statements in a separate note to the financial statements at each interim and annual reporting period, including amounts of purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation, and intangible asset amortization. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2028 and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures.
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.
The components of basic and diluted EPS were as follows:
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations of diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented.
The components of other income (expense), net were as follows:
Other, net primarily reflects net recognized losses on equity method investments, including OpenAI.
Net recognized gains (losses) on debt investments were as follows:
Net recognized gains (losses) on equity investments were as follows:
The components of investments were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments.
Debt investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months or greater and their related fair values were as follows:
Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent impairments based on our evaluation of available evidence.
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions.
Foreign currency risks related to certain Euro-denominated debt are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedging instruments.
Certain options and forwards not designated as hedging instruments are also used to manage the variability in foreign exchange rates on certain balance sheet amounts and to manage other foreign currency exposures.
Interest rate risks related to certain fixed-rate debt are hedged using interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedging instruments to effectively convert the fixed interest rates to floating interest rates.
Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain broad-based fixed-income indices using option, futures, and swap contracts. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are included in “Other contracts” in the tables below.
Securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to market price risk. At times, we may hold options, futures, and swap contracts. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments.
Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We use credit default swap contracts to manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are included in “Other contracts” in the tables below.
The following table presents the notional amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments measured in U.S. dollar equivalents:
The following table presents our derivative instruments:
The following table presents the fair value of our derivatives instruments on a gross basis:
Gains (losses), net of tax, on derivative instruments recognized in our consolidated comprehensive income statements were as follows:
The components of property and equipment were as follows:
The allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was completed as of September 30, 2024.
The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows:
Goodwill was assigned to our More Personal Computing segment. The goodwill was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Activision Blizzard. Substantially all of the goodwill is expected to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:
Following are the supplemental consolidated financial results of Microsoft Corporation on an unaudited pro forma basis, as if the acquisition had been consummated on July 1, 2022:
These pro forma results were based on estimates and assumptions, which we believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had we been a combined company during the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations in future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments related to purchase accounting, primarily amortization of intangible assets. Acquisition costs and other nonrecurring charges were immaterial and are included in the earliest period presented.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
The measurement periods for the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a change in the amounts allocated to goodwill during the periods in which the adjustments are determined.
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented as “Other” in the table above. Also included in “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.
We test goodwill for impairment annually on May 1 at the reporting unit level, primarily using a discounted cash flow methodology with a peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. We believe use of a discounted cash flow approach is the most reliable indicator of the fair values of the businesses.
The components of intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as follows:
No material impairments of intangible assets were identified during fiscal years 2025, 2024, or 2023. We estimate that we have no significant residual value related to our intangible assets.
The components of intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as follows:
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets held as of June 30, 2025:
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the interest rate swaps related to fixed-rate debt.
The following table outlines maturities of our long-term debt, including the current portion, as of June 30, 2025:
The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:
U.S. and foreign components of income before income taxes were as follows:
The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective rate were as follows:
Other reconciling items, net consists primarily of tax credits and the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income tax, and in fiscal year 2024, includes tax benefits from tax law changes. In fiscal year 2024, tax benefits from tax law changes primarily relate to the delay of the effective date of final foreign tax credit regulations. In fiscal years 2025, 2024, and 2023, there were no individually significant other reconciling items.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2025 compared to fiscal year 2024 was due to changes in the mix of our earnings and tax expenses between the U.S. and foreign countries. The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to tax benefits from tax law changes, including the delay of the effective date of final foreign tax credit regulations.
The components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid or recovered.
The valuation allowance disclosed in the table above relates to the foreign net operating loss carryforwards, federal capital loss carryforwards, and other net deferred tax assets that may not be realized.
The aggregate changes in the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions were as follows:
Unearned revenue by segment was as follows:
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
Changes in unearned revenue were as follows:
The components of lease expense were as follows:
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows:
In 2018, the Irish Data Protection Commission (“IDPC”) began investigating a complaint against LinkedIn as to whether LinkedIn’s targeted advertising practices violated the recently implemented European Union General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). Microsoft cooperated throughout the period of inquiry. In October 2024, the IDPC provided LinkedIn with a final decision alleging GDPR violations and assessing a fine. In November 2024, LinkedIn appealed the final decision to the Irish courts, and the next hearing is scheduled for December 2025.
We also are subject to a variety of other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against us, individually or in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.
Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:
We repurchased the following shares of common stock under the share repurchase programs:
Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends:
The dividend declared on June 10, 2025 was included in other current liabilities as of June 30, 2025.
We grant stock-based compensation to employees and directors. Awards that expire or are canceled without delivery of shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. We issue new shares of Microsoft common stock to satisfy vesting of awards granted under our stock plans. We also have an ESPP for all eligible employees.
Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were as follows:
The fair value of stock awards was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:
Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented:
The CODM uses operating income to allocate resources during our annual planning process and throughout the year, as well as to assess the performance of our segments, primarily by monitoring actual results compared to prior periods and expected results.
During the periods presented, we reported our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
Our reportable segments are described below.
Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises:
Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft 365 Commercial products, comprising Windows Commercial on-premises and Office licensed on-premises.
Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other consumer services.
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises:
Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services, comprising cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services; and Server products, comprising SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”), and other on-premises offerings.
Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises:
Windows and Devices, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel) and Devices, comprising Surface and PC accessories.
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, and other cloud services.
Search and news advertising, comprising Bing and Copilot, Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates.
Segment revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and operating income were as follows during the periods presented:
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States accounted for more than 10% of revenue for fiscal years 2025, 2024, or 2023.
Revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers were located, was as follows:
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.
Revenue, classified by significant product and service offerings, was as follows:
Assets are not allocated to segments for internal reporting presentations. A portion of amortization and depreciation is included with various other costs in an overhead allocation to each segment. It is impracticable for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment profit or loss.
Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified by the location of the controlling statutory company and with countries over 10% of the total shown separately, were as follows:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders' equity, for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2025, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
The Company recognizes revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company offers customers the ability to acquire multiple licenses of software products and services, including cloud-based services, in its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs.
Significant judgment is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements, and includes the following:
Determination of whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services.
The pattern of delivery (i.e., timing of when revenue is recognized) for each distinct performance obligation.
Identification and treatment of contract terms that may impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized (e.g., variable consideration, optional purchases, and free services).
Determination of stand-alone selling prices for each distinct performance obligation and for products and services that are not sold separately.
Given these factors and due to the volume of transactions, the related audit effort in evaluating management's judgments in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements was extensive and required a high degree of auditor judgment.
Our principal audit procedures related to the Company's revenue recognition for certain customer agreements included the following:
We tested the effectiveness of controls related to the identification of distinct performance obligations, the determination of the timing of revenue recognition, and the estimation of variable consideration.
We evaluated management's significant accounting policies related to certain customer agreements for reasonableness.
We selected a sample of customer agreements and performed the following procedures:
Obtained and read contract source documents for each selection, including master agreements, and other documents that were part of the agreement.
Tested management's identification and treatment of contract terms.
Assessed the terms in the customer agreement and evaluated the appropriateness of management's application of their accounting policies, along with their use of estimates, in the determination of revenue recognition conclusions.
We evaluated the reasonableness of management's estimate of stand-alone selling prices for products and services that are not sold separately.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of management's calculations of revenue and the associated timing of revenue recognized in the financial statements.
The Company’s long-term income taxes liability includes uncertain tax positions related to transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The Company remains under IRS audit, or subject to IRS audit, for tax years subsequent to 2003. During fiscal year 2024, the Company received Notices of Proposed Adjustments (“NOPAs”) for the tax years 2004 to 2013, primarily related to intercompany transfer pricing. While the Company has settled a portion of the IRS audits, resolution of the remaining matters could have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
Conclusions on recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions involve significant estimates and management judgment and include complex considerations of the Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, tax case laws, and prior-year audit settlements. Given the complexity and the subjective nature of certain transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the IRS, evaluating management’s estimates relating to their determination of uncertain tax positions required a high degree of auditor judgment, including involvement of our tax specialists.
Our principal audit procedures to evaluate management’s estimates of uncertain tax positions related to unresolved transfer pricing issues included the following:
We evaluated management’s methods and assumptions used in the measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax positions, which included testing the effectiveness of the related internal controls.
We tested the reasonableness of management’s judgments regarding the future resolution of uncertain tax positions, as follows:
We evaluated whether management had appropriately considered new information that could significantly change the measurement of the uncertain tax positions.
We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s estimates by considering how changes in tax law, including statutes, regulations, and recent case law, impacted management’s judgments.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures in relation to the underlying facts, judgments, and conclusions.
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of our consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of company assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of company assets that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2025, of the Company and our report dated July 30, 2025, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
A list of our executive officers and biographical information appears in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Information about our directors may be found under the caption “Our Director Nominees” in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held December 5, 2025 (the “Proxy Statement”). Information about our Audit Committee may be found under the caption “Board Committees” in the Proxy Statement. Information about our trading policies and procedures can be found under the caption “Insider Trading Policies and Procedures” in the Proxy Statement. That information is incorporated herein by reference.
We will provide disclosure of delinquent Section 16(a) reports, if any, in our Proxy Statement under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” and such disclosure, if any, is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Named Executive Officer Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Report,” and, if required, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions “Stock Ownership Information,” “Principal Shareholders,” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Director Independence” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” is incorporated herein by reference.
Information concerning fees and services provided by our principal accountant, Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No.
The financial statements are set forth under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, as indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.
Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond, State of Washington, on July 30, 2025.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on July 30, 2025.
A. Grantor established this Trust and its predecessors to be a source of indemnification for Grantor’s Officers who are eligible for indemnification as stated in this Trust as it is in effect from time to time.
B. Grantor has determined, after due diligence, that it has and will continue to derive substantial economic benefits from this Trust, including from economic terms that are more favorable to Grantor than obtaining protection for its Officers through the current director and officer insurance market.
C. Grantor’s Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”) provide for mandatory indemnification of Grantor’s Officers (as defined in the Articles) to the maximum extent provided by law, and as such, this Trust is not an exclusive source of indemnification for the Officers as covered in this Agreement.
D. Grantor has determined that the Trust continues to be necessary in order for Grantor to attract and retain the most qualified Officers. Grantor has also determined to increase the Minimum Balance to reflect current market conditions.
E. This Agreement amends, restates and replaces the 2016 Officers’ Indemnification Trust Agreement dated June 30, 2016 established by Grantor, with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee therein and Charles H. Noski as Beneficiaries’ Representative therein (the “2016 Trust”). Grantor’s Board of Directors has acted by resolution adopted June 11, 2025 to amend and restate the 2016 Trust effective as of the Effective Date. Pursuant to an Assumption of Beneficiaries’ Representative Obligations Under Amended and Restated Directors’ Indemnification Trust Agreement, date as of December 4, 2019, Hugh F. Johnston agreed to serve as the successor Beneficiaries’ Representative under the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement.
F. The 2016 Trust replaced the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated June 28, 2009 (the “2009 Trust”), which replaced the Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 established by Grantor, with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., successor in interest to BNY Western Trust Company, as Trustee therein and Charles Noski as Beneficiaries’ Representative therein (the “1993 Trust” and together with the 2009 Trust and 2016 Trust, the “Previous Trusts”).
G. This Trust also is designed to provide continuing coverage for the “executive officers” as such term is used in the 1993 Trust as such coverage was effective upon execution of the 2016 Trust, with such coverage to overlap with the 1993 Trust for certain officers of Grantor prior to termination of the 1993 Trust.
H. Except as otherwise noted, the capitalized terms have the meaning ascribed to them in the body of this Agreement.
Until any such notification is received, the Trustee shall be entitled to treat the last identified Beneficiaries’ Representative as the Beneficiaries’ Representative for all purposes hereunder.
Upon the execution of a counterpart of this Agreement by such new Beneficiaries’ Representative the Trustee shall be entitled, without inquiry, to treat such new Beneficiaries’ Representative as the Beneficiaries’ Representative for all purposes hereunder.
Upon request, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and rely on the accuracy and completeness of: (1) a written list delivered to the Trustee by Grantor, and certified by the Secretary of Grantor to be accurate and to have been prepared in good faith, identifying the names and addresses of all then current Beneficiaries, (2) a written notice delivered to the Trustee by Grantor, and certified by the Secretary of Grantor to be accurate and to have been prepared in good faith, identifying the name and address of the then current Beneficiaries’ Representative.
Grantor shall transfer as of the effective date of this Agreement an additional sum sufficient to cause the total balance held by the Trustee to equal $50,000,000 which thereafter shall be the “Minimum Balance,” to be held in trust, for the stated uses and purposes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude Grantor from making additional transfers of funds from time to time to the Trustee, whether required under the terms of this Agreement or not, to be held in trust as part of the Trust Fund. If Grantor makes additional transfers of funds to the Trust Fund, such additional transfers shall be deemed an increase of the Minimum Balance and Exhibit A shall be automatically amended without further action by the parties to this Agreement. Grantor and the Beneficiaries’ Representative shall periodically, but no less than every third anniversary of this Agreement, review the adequacy of the Minimum Balance.
In the event the trust arrangement created hereby is deemed to be invalid or ineffective as a trust by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in connection with the bankruptcy of one of the parties hereto or otherwise (an “Adverse Determination”), then the parties agree that the nature of their relationship shall be Grantor as debtor, the Trustee as securities intermediary and the Beneficiaries’ Representative as secured party for the benefit of the Beneficiaries. To that end, and to secure the obligation of Grantor to indemnify Beneficiaries, Grantor hereby grants the Beneficiaries’ Representative for the benefit of the Beneficiaries a continuing security interest in, and pledges all rights, title and interest in and to, the following (for purposes of this Section 4.11, the “Collateral”):
Grantor and, at the direction of the Beneficiaries’ Representative, the Trustee shall execute such other documents and instruments as the Beneficiaries’ Representative reasonably may require from time to time to perfect and protect the first priority security interest of the Beneficiaries’ Representative on behalf of the Beneficiaries in the Collateral but the Trustee shall have no duty to prepare or file any such documents or instruments. In the event of an Adverse Determination, the Beneficiaries’ Representative shall have and shall be deemed to have had all the rights and remedies of a secured party under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) and may exercise any of the rights and remedies available to the Beneficiaries’ Representative under the UCC as in effect from time to time in the State of Washington or otherwise available to the Beneficiaries’ Representative, including, without limitation, sale, assignment or other disposal of the Collateral in exchange for cash or credit. Grantor agrees that a Demand is also a notice of disposition under Section 9-611 of the UCC and that five (5) Business Days is reasonable notice if notice of a disposition is required under Section 9-611 of the UCC. Furthermore, Grantor agrees that any Beneficiary may be the purchaser of the Collateral consisting of Cash, Corporate Securities, Government Securities or Municipal Securities at a private sale without notice because the Collateral is of a type sold on a recognized market or the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations. The Beneficiaries’ Representative shall provide the Trustee with an Adverse Determination notice as soon as practicable, although failure to provide such notice shall not affect the rights or obligations of the parties to this Trust, except that a Beneficiary shall not take any action with respect to the Trustee as securities intermediary until such notice is provided. Except for the amounts due to the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.3, the Trustee waives any right of set-off, banker’s lien or other lien or claim it may have to the Collateral.
Grantor covenants and agrees that it shall not pledge, assign, hypothecate or transfer its interest in the Trust Account or the Trust Fund. Grantor further covenants and agrees that it shall not so direct the Trustee, and the Trustee agrees that it will not acknowledge or agree to any such pledge, assignment, hypothecation or transfer.
Whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Agreement the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of gross negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by the Beneficiaries’ Representative and an officer of Grantor and delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of gross negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof. The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, entitlement order, approval or other paper or document.
The Trustee shall have the right to accept and act upon instructions, including funds transfer instructions (“Instructions”) given pursuant to this Agreement and delivered using Electronic Means;
If to a Beneficiary from the Trustee:
If to a Beneficiary from the Grantor:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
Notice by personal delivery shall be effective upon the date delivery is made and notice by certified mail or overnight courier shall be effective on the date it is recorded as delivered by the U.S. Postal Service or the overnight courier, respectively. Email notice shall be effective on the date sent to a valid address so long as no notice of failure of delivery is received by sender. Each Beneficiary and the Beneficiaries’ Representative shall provide Trustee and Grantor with prompt notice of changes of address.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the 30th day of June, 2025.
The Trustee shall continue to hold the amount in the Trust Fund immediately prior to the date of execution of this Agreement as part of the Minimum Balance under this Agreement. Grantor shall transfer as of the effective date of this Agreement an additional sum sufficient to cause the total balance held by the Trustee to equal $50,000,000 which thereafter shall be the Minimum Balance, to be held in trust, for the stated uses and purposes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
If Trustee receives no instructions from Grantor for the liquidation of assets pursuant to Section 4.6, Trustee shall liquidate the Trust Fund in the following order, liquidating the entire amount of each class of funds before liquidating additional funds from the next class sufficient to make a distribution:
WHEREAS, there is a general awareness that competent and experienced persons are becoming more reluctant to serve as directors or executive officers of publicly-held corporations unless they are protected by comprehensive policies of insurance or indemnification, due to the increasing number of lawsuits against such corporations and their directors and officers, the attendant expense of defending against such lawsuits, and the exposure of such directors and officers to unreasonably high damages;
WHEREAS, present laws and interpretations are frequently too uncertain to provide such officers and directors with adequate, reliable knowledge of the legal risks to which they may be exposed as a result of serving the corporation;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has concluded that its directors and executive officers should be provided with protection against such risks in order to insure that the most capable persons will be attracted to such positions; and, therefore, has determined to contractually obligate itself to indemnify in a reasonable manner its directors and executive officers and to assume for itself the liability for expenses and damages in connection with claims lodged against its directors and executive officers as a result of their service to the Company;
WHEREAS, applicable law empowers corporations to indemnify persons serving as a director, officer, employee, or agent of the corporation or a person who serves at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, and further empowers a corporation to purchase and maintain insurance (on behalf of such persons) against liability which may be asserted against Indemnitee or incurred by Indemnitee in any such capacity, or arising out of Indemnitee’s status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify against such liability under the provisions of said laws;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has concluded that, due to the high cost and other negative features of the coverage under presently available directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, at this time it would not be in the best interest of its shareholders for the Company to purchase and maintain such insurance in the amounts customarily held by similar corporations and that its shareholders’ interest would be better served by contracting to indemnify its executive officers and directors thereby reasonably self-insuring against such potential liabilities;
WHEREAS, the parties believe it appropriate to memorialize and reaffirm the Company’s indemnification obligations to Indemnitee and, in addition, to set forth the agreements contained herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, conditions, representations, and warranties set forth herein, including the Indemnitee’s continued service to the Company, the Company and Indemnitee hereby agree as follows:
A final order by a court of competent jurisdiction from which there is no further right of appeal.
To demand deposits from the Company so as to maintain the Minimum Balance and make any Additional Contribution as required by sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the Trust Agreement;
To demand payments by the Trustee to Indemnitee, upon demand by Indemnitee where, in the good faith judgment of the Beneficiaries’ Representative, the Indemnitee has satisfied the conditions for indemnification as set forth in this Agreement and the Trust Agreement;
To generally cause the Company and Trustee to discharge their respective responsibilities under this Agreement and the Trust Agreement, including the bringing of legal actions and proceedings to enforce such Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
Grantor initially established the directors’ indemnification trust by an agreement dated as of June 30, 2003 (the “Original Trust Agreement”) to be a source of indemnification for Grantor’s Directors who are eligible for such indemnification as stated in this Trust as it is in effect from time to time.
Grantor and Beneficiaries of this Trust adopted an amendment to the Original Agreement in November 2006, and further amended and restated the Trust in July of 2010 and June 30 of 2016 (the “Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement”).
Pursuant to an Assumption of Beneficiaries’ Representative Obligations Under Amended and Restated Directors’ Indemnification Trust Agreement, date as of December 4, 2019, Hugh F. Johnston agreed to serve as the successor Beneficiaries’ Representative under the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement.
Grantor has determined, after due diligence, that it has and will continue to derive substantial economic benefits from this Trust, including from economic terms that are more favorable to Grantor than obtaining protection for its Directors through the current director and officer insurance market.
Grantor’s Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”) provide for mandatory indemnification of Grantor’s Directors to the maximum extent provided by law, and as such, this Trust is not an exclusive source of indemnification for such Directors.
Grantor has determined that continuation and further amendment of this Trust is necessary in order for Grantor to attract and retain the most qualified persons to serve as Directors.
Grantor and the Beneficiaries under the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement wish to amend certain provisions in that trust agreement and to restate in its entirety the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement and replace it with this amended and restated Agreement. Grantor’s Board of Directors has acted by resolution adopted June 11, 2025 to amend and restate the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement effective as of the Effective Date.
Except as otherwise noted, the capitalized terms have the meaning ascribed to them in the body of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, as of the Effective Date, Grantor and the Trustee acknowledge that the funds held under the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement shall be held in trust under this Agreement and the Trustee accepts the trust created hereby and agrees that it will hold all property which it may receive or hold hereunder specifically including the Minimum Balance as defined in Section 4.2 at the Effective Date, together with the additional funds, as custodian IN TRUST, for the purposes and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter stated, and Grantor, the Trustee and the Beneficiaries’ Representative agree as follows:
All present and future Directors and all “Beneficiaries” of the Original Trust Agreement and/or the Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement who were “Beneficiaries” of such trusts as Directors shall be “Beneficiaries” of this Trust (and each a “Beneficiary”), provided, however, that if there is a Change of Control of Grantor, no directors elected or appointed after or in connection with such Change of Control shall be entitled to be Beneficiaries who were not Beneficiaries prior to such Change of Control. For purposes of this Agreement, “Change of Control” shall mean (a) a tender offer or exchange offer in which the purpose of such offer is to take over and control Grantor and such offer is accepted by owners of securities of Grantor representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of Grantor’s then outstanding voting securities, (b) Grantor is merged or consolidated with another corporation and as a result of such merger or consolidation less than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall then be owned in the aggregate by the former shareholders of Grantor, (c) Grantor transfers substantially all of its assets to another corporation which is not a wholly-owned subsidiary of Grantor, or (d) during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, individuals who at the beginning of such twelve (12) month period were directors of Grantor cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of Grantor’s Board of Directors. The Beneficiaries’ Representative shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of a Change of Control. Any Beneficiary shall remain a Beneficiary despite his or her resignation, removal, or other failure to continue to be a member of Grantor’s Board of Directors during the term of this Agreement. A person whose conduct gives rise to a right of indemnification both as a member of the Board of Directors and as an Officer of Grantor, shall be a Beneficiary hereunder as to all such conduct without being required to separate his or her activities between the role of Director and the role of Officer.
The initial Beneficiaries’ Representative shall be the person identified as the Beneficiaries’ Representative in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Any subsequent Beneficiaries’ Representative shall be a Beneficiary who is a present or past nonemployee Director of Grantor, designated in writing to the Grantor from time to time by a majority of the current nonemployee Directors who are Beneficiaries under this Agreement.
For this purpose, a Director who has not been employed by Grantor during the current calendar year and the preceding three (3) years shall be regarded as a nonemployee Director.
A Beneficiary shall be deemed to have consented to such change in Beneficiaries’ Representative if such Beneficiary is provided with notice of such change by the Grantor and does not provide written notice to the Grantor of objection to the change within ten (10) days.
The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on such subsequent appointment as of the date such writing is received by the Trustee.
The Grantor shall notify the Trustee of any new Beneficiaries’ Representative.
Until any such notification is received, the Trustee shall be entitled to treat the last identified Beneficiaries’ Representative as the Beneficiaries’ Representative for all purposes hereunder.
Upon the execution of a counterpart of this Agreement by such new Beneficiaries’ Representative the Trustee shall be entitled, without inquiry, to treat such new Beneficiaries’ Representative as the Beneficiaries’ Representative for all purposes hereunder.
Upon request, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and rely on the accuracy and completeness of: (1) a written list delivered to the Trustee by Grantor, and certified by the Secretary of Grantor to be accurate and to have been prepared in good faith, identifying the names and addresses of all then current Beneficiaries, (2) a written notice delivered to the Trustee by Grantor, and certified by the Secretary of Grantor to be accurate and to have been prepared in good faith, identifying the name and address of the then current Beneficiaries’ Representative.
To demand deposits from Grantor so as to maintain the Minimum Balance of the Trust in accordance with Section 4.3 and any Additional Contributions required by Section 4.4;
To use commercially reasonable efforts to cause Grantor and the Trustee to discharge their respective responsibilities under this Agreement and the responsibilities of Grantor under the Articles, including the bringing of legal actions and proceedings to enforce such Agreement.
To cause any investment to be registered and held in the name of one or more of its nominees, or one or more nominees of any system for the central handling of securities, without increase or decrease of liability;
To hold uninvested, without liability for interest thereon, such monies received by the Trustee as the Trustee considers necessary to meet anticipated and imminent disbursements.
The Trust Account and the Trust Fund, and any certificates or instruments representing or evidencing the Trust Fund, and all cash, investment property, interest, dividends, rights and other property at any time and from time to time received, receivable or otherwise issued, distributed or distributable in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the Trust Fund;
Grantor and, at the direction of the Beneficiaries’ Representative, the Trustee shall execute such other documents and instruments as the Beneficiaries’ Representative reasonably may require from time to time to perfect and protect the first priority security interest of the Beneficiaries’ Representative on behalf of the Beneficiaries in the Collateral but the Trustee shall have no duty to prepare or file any such documents or instruments. In the event of an Adverse Determination, the Beneficiaries’ Representative shall have and shall be deemed to have had all the rights and remedies of a secured party under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) and may exercise any of the rights and remedies available to the Beneficiaries’ Representative under the UCC as in effect from time to time in the State of Washington or otherwise available to the Beneficiaries’ Representative, including, without limitation, sale, assignment or other disposal of the Collateral in exchange for cash or credit. Grantor agrees that a Demand is also a notice of disposition under Section 9-611 of the UCC and that five (5) Business Days is reasonable notice if notice of a disposition is required under Section 9-611 of the UCC. Furthermore, Grantor agrees that any Beneficiary may be the purchaser of the Collateral consisting of Cash, Corporate Securities, Government Securities or Municipal Securities at a private sale without notice because the Collateral is of a type sold on a recognized market or the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations. The Beneficiaries’ Representative shall provide the Trustee with an Adverse Determination notice as soon as practicable, although failure to provide such notice shall not affect the rights or obligations of the parties to this Trust, except that a Beneficiary shall not take any action with respect to the Trustee as securities intermediary until such notice is provided. Except for the amounts due to the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.3, the Trustee waives any right of set-off, banker’s lien or other lien or claim it may have to the Collateral.
Grantor covenants and agrees that it shall not pledge, assign, hypothecate or transfer its interest in the Trust Account or the Trust Fund. Grantor further covenants and agrees that it shall not so direct the Trustee, and the Trustee agrees that it will not acknowledge or agree to any such pledge, assignment, hypothecation or transfer.
Removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee shall take effect sixty (60) days following delivery to the Trustee of (a) an instrument in writing removing the Trustee and appointing such successor, executed by Grantor and accompanied by an instrument in writing signed by the Beneficiaries’ Representative certifying that a majority of the current non-employee Directors who are Beneficiaries agree to such removal and appointment, and (b) an acceptance in writing, executed by such successor, both acknowledged in the same form as this Agreement. The Trustee may agree to an earlier effective date. In the event of the merger, sale (of all or substantially all of the Trustee’s corporate trust business) or dissolution of the Trustee, a successor trustee shall be appointed by Grantor (which successor trustee may be in Grantor’s sole discretion the acquiring party or successor entity in the case of sale or merger of the Trustee) with the approval of the Beneficiaries’ Representative, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and a writing to such effect and an acceptance in writing, as referred to above, shall be delivered to the Trustee. In order to qualify to serve as Trustee, any successor trustee must, at a minimum: (i) be authorized under state or federal law to exercise corporate trust powers, (ii) have a combined capital and surplus of at least $250,000,000, and (iii) be subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority.
All of the provisions set forth herein with respect to the Trustee shall relate to each successor with the same force and effect as if such successor had been originally named as the Trustee under this Trust.
If a successor is not appointed within sixty (60) days after the Trustee gives notice of its resignation pursuant to Section 4.1, or within sixty (60) days after the Trustee’s merger, sale (of all or substantially all of the Trustee’s corporate trust business) or dissolution, the Trustee or the Beneficiaries’ Representative may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Trust for appointment of a successor.
The term of this Trust shall be for a period extending from the effective date of the Original Trust Agreement until June 30, 2035, unless extended or terminated according to the terms of this Trust. This Trust may be terminated by consent of a majority of the Board of Directors and a majority of the then living Beneficiaries;
Grantor and the Beneficiaries’ Representative (jointly or separately) as applicable shall provide the Trustee and the Beneficiaries and their successors in interest with written notice of expiration at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date.
In the event of a proposed termination prior to the expiration of the term of this Trust, Beneficiaries may assert a Demand if, in such Beneficiaries’ good faith judgment, there is a reasonable likelihood that following such proposed termination, a Claim will be asserted arising out of a Covered Act that occurred before the effective date of such termination. If so made, such Demand(s) shall be treated as a then existing and still pending Demand hereunder.
In the event of a proposed amendment of this Trust, a Beneficiary may assert a Demand if, in the Beneficiary’s good faith judgment, there is a reasonable likelihood that following such proposed amendment, a Claim will be asserted arising out of a Covered Act that occurred before the effective date of such amendment and that will be affected by such amendment.
If so made, such Demand(s) shall be treated as a then existing and still pending Demand hereunder.
Whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Agreement the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of gross negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by the Beneficiaries’ Representative and an officer of Grantor and delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of gross negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof. The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, entitlement order, approval or other paper or document.
In order to facilitate access by Grantor or its designee to ballots or online systems to assist in the voting of proxies received for eligible positions of securities held in the Trust Fund (excluding bankruptcy matters), the Trustee will, at the written request of Grantor upon the execution of this Agreement, appoint a provider of proxy voting services to act as agent of Grantor to provide global proxy voting services to Grantor. Trustee shall have no obligation or liability in respect of such proxy voting services or the acts or omissions of the provider of such proxy voting services.
Throughout the term of this Agreement, the Grantor (i) will have in place and will implement commercially reasonable policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of Sanctions, including measures to accomplish effective and timely scanning of all relevant data with respect to its clients and with respect to incoming or outgoing assets or transactions relating to this Agreement; (ii) shall ensure that neither the Grantor, any of the Grantor’s affiliates, directors, officers, employees, nor any Beneficiary is an individual or entity that is, or is owned or controlled by an individual or entity that is: (A) the target of Sanctions; or (B) located, organized or resident in a country or territory that is, or whose government is, the target of Sanctions; and (iii) shall not, directly or indirectly, use the services and/or Accounts in any manner that would result in a violation by any party of Sanctions.
The Grantor will promptly provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee reasonably requests in connection with the matters referenced in this Section 7.8, including information regarding the Beneficiaries, the Trust Fund, the assets in relation to which services are to be provided and the source thereof, and the identity of any individual or entity having or claiming an interest therein. The Trustee may decline to act or provide services, and take such other actions as it, in its reasonable discretion, deems necessary or advisable, in connection with the matters referenced in this Section 7.8. If the Trustee declines to act or provide services as provided in the preceding sentence, except as otherwise prohibited by applicable law or official request, the Trustee will inform the Grantor as soon as reasonably practicable.
Each party hereto hereby agrees not to elect a trial by jury of any issue triable of right by jury, and waives any right to trial by jury fully to the extent that any such right shall now or hereafter exist with regard to this Agreement, or any claim, counterclaim or other action arising in connection herewith. This waiver of right to trial by jury is given knowingly and voluntarily by each party, and is intended to encompass individually each instance and each issue as to which the right to a trial by jury would otherwise accrue.
If to a Beneficiary from the Trustee:
If to a Beneficiary from the Grantor:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
Notice by personal delivery shall be effective upon the date delivery is made and notice by certified mail or overnight courier shall be effective on the date it is recorded as delivered by the U.S. Postal Service or the overnight courier, respectively. Email notice shall be effective on the date sent to a valid address so long as no notice of failure of delivery is received by sender. Each Beneficiary and the Beneficiaries’ Representative shall provide Trustee and Grantor with prompt notice of changes of address.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the 30th day of June, 2025.
The Trustee shall continue to hold the amount in the Trust Fund immediately prior to the date of execution of this Agreement as part of the Minimum Balance under this Agreement. Grantor shall transfer as of the effective date of this Agreement an additional sum sufficient to cause the total balance held by the Trustee to equal $50,000,000 which thereafter shall be the Minimum Balance, to be held in trust, for the stated uses and purposes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
The following is a list of subsidiaries of Microsoft Corporation as of June 30, 2025, omitting subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-109185, 333-118764, 333-52852, 333-132100, 333-161516, 333-75243, 333-185757, and 333-221833 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-283760 on Form S-3 of our reports dated July 30, 2025, relating to the financial statements of Microsoft Corporation and the effectiveness of Microsoft Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the year ended June 30, 2025.
I, Satya Nadella, certify that:
I, Amy E. Hood, certify that:
In connection with the Annual Report of Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation (the “Company”), on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2025, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Report”), Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, does hereby certify, pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. § 1350), that to his knowledge:
In connection with the Annual Report of Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation (the “Company”), on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2025, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Report”), Amy E. Hood, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, does hereby certify, pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. § 1350), that to her knowledge:
Issuance of long term debt eleven.
Right of use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations.
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, other current and noncurrent liabilities.
Issuance of long term debt two.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to deferred tax on foreign earnings.
Schedule of maturities of operating and finance leases liabilities.
Other receivables related to purchase of components.
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed income tax liabilities noncurrent.
Issuance of long term debt one.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Derivative asset statement of financial position extensible enumeration not disclosed flag.
Tabular disclosure of the company's share repurchase activity.
The cash inflow associated with the sale of all investments during the period.
The summation of impairment on equity securities, representing the decline in fair value below cost.
The entire disclosure for operating and finance leases of lessee. Includes, but is not limited to, description of operating and finance leases and maturity analysis of operating and finance lease liabilities.
A tabular disclosure of the aggregate related fair value of debt investments with unrealized losses and the aggregate amount of unrealized losses.
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, other current and noncurrent assets.
Lessee, operating and finance leases remaining lease term.
Hedge accounting fair value adjustments.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to depreciation.
Represents losses (gains) included in earnings for the period as a result of selling or holding securities and derivatives.
Schedule of supplemental cash flow information related to leases.
Operating loss carryforwards expiration year.
Issuance of long term debt six.
Capital loss carryforwards expiration year.
Share repurchase program twenty twenty four.
Total funding commitments made related to equity method investments.
Derivative liability statement of financial position extensible enumeration not disclosed flag.
Issuance of long term debt five.
Effective income tax rate reconciliation deductions excess tax benefits stock based compensation.
Earning per share basic and diluted abstract.
Tabular disclosure of the components of cash, cash equivalents, and investments.
IRS audit notices of proposed adjustment amount.
Issuance of long term debt three.
Amount of capital loss carryforward, before tax effects, available to reduce future taxable capital gain under enacted tax laws.
Disclosure of accounting policy for related party transactions.
The aggregate net amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion recognized during an accounting period, and other operating transactions that are not included elsewhere in the statement of cash flows.
Share Repurchase Program Twenty Twenty One And Twenty Twenty Four.
Amount, after allowance for credit loss, of financing receivable.
Schedule of supplemental balance sheet information related to leases.
Effective income tax rate reconciliation interest income (expense).
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
The minimum liquidity for the period as required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
Issuance of long term debt eight.
Issuance of long term debt four.
The cash outflow associated with the acquisitions of businesses, net of the cash acquired from the purchases, and purchases of intangible and other assets.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax assets attributable to book tax basis differences in investments and debt.
Lessee, operating and finance leases options to terminate leases term.
Designated tax department of the federal or state government that is entitled to levy and collect income taxes from the entity.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences from amortization.
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments.
Cash paid for amounts included in measurement of lease liabilities.
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Issuance of long term debt seven.
Amount of revenue recognized including additions that was previously included in balance of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration from customer has been received or is due.
Purchases of property and equipment remaining in accounts payable.
Tabular disclosure of contract balances by reportable segment.
Issuance of long term debt ten.
Tabular disclosure of the significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair value of stock awards.
The summation of credit loss allowance and impairment on debt securities. The credit loss allowance represents the decline in fair value below cost due to credit related factors. The impairment represents the decline in fair value below cost for securities which the entity either plans to sell or more likely than not will be required to sell before recovery.
Issuance of long term debt nine.
Deferred tax assets, leasing liabilities.
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operations:
Amount of deferred tax asset attributable to capitalization of research and development expenditures.
Describes the entity's policies for sales and marketing expenses, which include payroll and related costs for sales and marketing personnel and costs of advertising (such as promotions, tradeshows and seminars).
Share repurchase program twenty twenty one.
The minimum liquidity required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
Amount of revenue deferred for contract with customer.
The average price per share of stock purchased by employees under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during the period.
Disclosure of accounting policy for recasting of certain prior period information.
Server products and cloud services.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders' equity, for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2025 and 2024, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2025, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on December 5, 2025 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
Boolean flag that is true when the XBRL content amends previously-filed or accepted submission.
Boolean flag that is true only for a form used as an annual report.
Indicates whether any of the financial statement period in the filing include a restatement due to error correction.
Fiscal period values are FY, Q1, Q2, and Q3. 1st, 2nd and 3rd quarter 10-Q or 10-QT statements have value Q1, Q2, and Q3 respectively, with 10-K, 10-KT or other fiscal year statements having FY.
This is focus fiscal year of the document report in YYYY format. For a 2006 annual report, which may also provide financial information from prior periods, fiscal 2006 should be given as the fiscal year focus. Example: 2006.
For the EDGAR submission types of Form 8-K: the date of the report, the date of the earliest event reported; for the EDGAR submission types of Form N-1A: the filing date; for all other submission types: the end of the reporting or transition period. The format of the date is YYYY-MM-DD.
Boolean flag that is true only for a form used as a transition report.
The type of document being provided (such as 10-K, 10-Q, 485BPOS, etc). The document type is limited to the same value as the supporting SEC submission type, or the word 'Other'.
Name of the state or province.
A unique 10-digit SEC-issued value to identify entities that have filed disclosures with the SEC. It is commonly abbreviated as CIK.
Indicate number of shares or other units outstanding of each of registrant's classes of capital or common stock or other ownership interests, if and as stated on cover of related periodic report. Where multiple classes or units exist define each class/interest by adding class of stock items such as Common Class A [Member], Common Class B [Member] or Partnership Interest [Member] onto the Instrument [Domain] of the Entity Listings, Instrument.
Indicate 'Yes' or 'No' whether registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. This information should be based on the registrant's current or most recent filing containing the related disclosure.
Indicate if registrant meets the emerging growth company criteria.
Commission file number. The field allows up to 17 characters. The prefix may contain 1-3 digits, the sequence number may contain 1-8 digits, the optional suffix may contain 1-4 characters, and the fields are separated with a hyphen.
Indicate whether the registrant is one of the following: Large Accelerated Filer, Accelerated Filer, Non-accelerated Filer. Definitions of these categories are stated in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. This information should be based on the registrant's current or most recent filing containing the related disclosure.
Two-character EDGAR code representing the state or country of incorporation.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Boolean flag that is true when the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
The exact name of the entity filing the report as specified in its charter, which is required by forms filed with the SEC.
Boolean flag that is true when the registrant is a shell company as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Indicates that the company is a Smaller Reporting Company (SRC).
The Tax Identification Number (TIN), also known as an Employer Identification Number (EIN), is a unique 9-digit value assigned by the IRS.
Indicate 'Yes' or 'No' if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Local phone number for entity.
Name of the Exchange on which a security is registered.
Trading symbol of an instrument as listed on an exchange.
The aggregate costs related to goods produced and sold and services rendered by an entity during the reporting period. This excludes costs incurred during the reporting period related to financial services rendered and other revenue generating activities.
The amount of net income (loss) for the period per each share of common stock or unit outstanding during the reporting period.
The amount of net income (loss) for the period available to each share of common stock or common unit outstanding during the reporting period and to each share or unit that would have been outstanding assuming the issuance of common shares or units for all dilutive potential common shares or units outstanding during the reporting period.
The aggregate total of expenses of managing and administering the affairs of an entity, including affiliates of the reporting entity, which are not directly or indirectly associated with the manufacture, sale or creation of a product or product line.
Aggregate revenue less cost of goods and services sold or operating expenses directly attributable to the revenue generation activity.
Amount of income (loss) from continuing operations, including income (loss) from equity method investments, before deduction of income tax expense (benefit), and income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Amount of current income tax expense (benefit) and deferred income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to continuing operations.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
The aggregate amount of income or expense from ancillary business-related activities (that is to say, excluding major activities considered part of the normal operations of the business).
The net result for the period of deducting operating expenses from operating revenues.
Amount of expense for research and development. Includes, but is not limited to, cost for computer software product to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed and writeoff of research and development assets acquired in transaction other than business combination or joint venture formation or both. Excludes write-down of intangible asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, used in research and development activity.
Amount, excluding tax collected from customer, of revenue from satisfaction of performance obligation by transferring promised good or service to customer. Tax collected from customer is tax assessed by governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transaction, including, but not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise.
The aggregate total amount of expenses directly related to the marketing or selling of products or services.
The average number of shares or units issued and outstanding that are used in calculating diluted EPS or earnings per unit (EPU), determined based on the timing of issuance of shares or units in the period.
Number of [basic] shares or units, after adjustment for contingently issuable shares or units and other shares or units not deemed outstanding, determined by relating the portion of time within a reporting period that common shares or units have been outstanding to the total time in that period.
Amount after tax of increase (decrease) in equity from transactions and other events and circumstances from net income and other comprehensive income, attributable to parent entity. Excludes changes in equity resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
Amount, after tax and adjustment, of unrealized gain (loss) on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale) and unrealized gain (loss) on investment in debt security measured at amortized cost (held-to-maturity) from transfer to available-for-sale.
Amount, after tax and reclassification, of gain (loss) from derivative instrument designated and qualifying as cash flow hedge included in assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Amount after tax and reclassification adjustments of gain (loss) on foreign currency translation adjustments, foreign currency transactions designated and effective as economic hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and intra-entity foreign currency transactions that are of a long-term-investment nature.
Amount after tax of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent entity.
Carrying value as of the balance sheet date of liabilities incurred (and for which invoices have typically been received) and payable to vendors for goods and services received that are used in an entity's business. Used to reflect the current portion of the liabilities (due within one year or within the normal operating cycle if longer).
Amount, after allowance for credit loss, of right to consideration from customer for product sold and service rendered in normal course of business, classified as current.
Carrying amount as of the balance sheet date of the unpaid sum of the known and estimated amounts payable to satisfy all currently due domestic and foreign income tax obligations.
Carrying amount as of the balance sheet date of the unpaid sum of the known and estimated amounts payable to satisfy all domestic and foreign income tax obligations due beyond one year or the operating cycle, whichever is longer. Alternate captions include income taxes payable, noncurrent.
Amount, after tax, of accumulated increase (decrease) in equity from transaction and other event and circumstance from nonowner source.
Amount of asset recognized for present right to economic benefit.
Amount of asset recognized for present right to economic benefit, classified as current.
Amount of currency on hand as well as demand deposits with banks or financial institutions. Includes other kinds of accounts that have the general characteristics of demand deposits. Also includes short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. Excludes cash and cash equivalents within disposal group and discontinued operation.
Cash includes currency on hand as well as demand deposits with banks or financial institutions. It also includes other kinds of accounts that have the general characteristics of demand deposits in that the customer may deposit additional funds at any time and effectively may withdraw funds at any time without prior notice or penalty. Cash equivalents, excluding items classified as marketable securities, include short-term, highly liquid Investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and so near their maturity that they present minimal risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. Generally, only investments with original maturities of three months or less qualify under that definition. Original maturity means original maturity to the entity holding the investment. For example, both a three-month US Treasury bill and a three-year Treasury note purchased three months from maturity qualify as cash equivalents. However, a Treasury note purchased three years ago does not become a cash equivalent when its remaining maturity is three months. Short-term investments, exclusive of cash equivalents, generally consist of marketable securities intended to be sold within one year (or the normal operating cycle if longer) and may include trading securities, available-for-sale securities, or held-to-maturity securities (if maturing within one year), as applicable.
Carrying value as of the balance sheet date of short-term borrowings using unsecured obligations issued by banks, corporations and other borrowers to investors. The maturities of these money market securities generally do not exceed 270 days.
Represents the caption on the face of the balance sheet to indicate that the entity has entered into (1) purchase or supply arrangements that will require expending a portion of its resources to meet the terms thereof, and (2) is exposed to potential losses or, less frequently, gains, arising from (a) possible claims against a company's resources due to future performance under contract terms, and (b) possible losses or likely gains from uncertainties that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events that are deemed likely to occur do occur or fail to occur.
Amount of par value plus amounts in excess of par value or issuance value for common stock issued.
Amount of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration has been received or is receivable, classified as current.
Amount of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration has been received or is receivable, classified as noncurrent.
Amount, after deferred tax asset, of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable differences with jurisdictional netting.
Total of the carrying values as of the balance sheet date of obligations incurred through that date and payable for obligations related to services received from employees, such as accrued salaries and bonuses, payroll taxes and fringe benefits. Used to reflect the current portion of the liabilities (due within one year or within the normal operating cycle if longer).
Amount after amortization of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life.
Amount, after accumulated impairment loss, of asset representing future economic benefit arising from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized.
Amount after valuation and LIFO reserves of inventory expected to be sold, or consumed within one year or operating cycle, if longer.
Amount of liability recognized for present obligation requiring transfer or otherwise providing economic benefit to others.
Amount of liabilities and equity items, including the portion of equity attributable to noncontrolling interests, if any.
Total obligations incurred as part of normal operations that are expected to be paid during the following twelve months or within one business cycle, if longer.
Amount, after deduction of unamortized premium (discount) and debt issuance cost, of long-term debt classified as current. Excludes lease obligation.
Amount, after deduction of unamortized premium (discount) and debt issuance cost, of long-term debt classified as noncurrent. Excludes lease obligation.
The total amount of investments that are intended to be held for an extended period of time (longer than one operating cycle).
Present value of lessee's discounted obligation for lease payments from operating lease, classified as noncurrent.
Amount of lessee's right to use underlying asset under operating lease.
Amount of current assets classified as other.
Amount of noncurrent assets classified as other.
Amount of liabilities classified as other, due within one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer.
Amount of liabilities classified as other, due after one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer.
Amount after accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services and not intended for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures.
Amount of accumulated undistributed earnings (deficit).
Amount of investments including trading securities, available-for-sale securities, held-to-maturity securities, and short-term investments classified as other and current.
Amount of equity (deficit) attributable to parent. Excludes temporary equity and equity attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Amount of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization for physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services.
Amount of allowance for credit loss on accounts receivable, classified as current.
The maximum number of common shares permitted to be issued by an entity's charter and bylaws.
Number of shares of common stock outstanding. Common stock represent the ownership interest in a corporation.
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operations:
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The cash outflow associated with the acquisitions of businesses, net of the cash acquired from the purchases, and purchases of intangible and other assets.
The aggregate net amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion recognized during an accounting period, and other operating transactions that are not included elsewhere in the statement of cash flows.
Represents losses (gains) included in earnings for the period as a result of selling or holding securities and derivatives.
The cash inflow associated with the sale of all investments during the period.
Amount of cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents restricted to withdrawal or usage. Excludes amount for disposal group and discontinued operations. Cash includes, but is not limited to, currency on hand, demand deposits with banks or financial institutions, and other accounts with general characteristics of demand deposits. Cash equivalents include, but are not limited to, short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates.
Amount of increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents restricted to withdrawal or usage; including effect from exchange rate change. Cash includes, but is not limited to, currency on hand, demand deposits with banks or financial institutions, and other accounts with general characteristics of demand deposits. Cash equivalents include, but are not limited to, short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates.
Amount of deferred income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to income (loss) from continuing operations.
Amount of increase (decrease) from effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents restricted to withdrawal or usage; held in foreign currencies; including, but not limited to, disposal group and discontinued operations. Cash includes, but is not limited to, currency on hand, demand deposits with banks or financial institutions, and other accounts with general characteristics of demand deposits. Cash equivalents include, but are not limited to, short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates.
The increase (decrease) during the reporting period in the aggregate amount of liabilities incurred (and for which invoices have typically been received) and payable to vendors for goods and services received that are used in an entity's business.
The increase (decrease) during the reporting period in amount due within one year (or one business cycle) from customers for the credit sale of goods and services.
The increase (decrease) during the period in the amount due for taxes based on the reporting entity's earnings or attributable to the entity's income earning process (business presence) within a given jurisdiction.
Amount of increase (decrease) in obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration has been received or is receivable.
The increase (decrease) during the reporting period in the aggregate value of all inventory held by the reporting entity, associated with underlying transactions that are classified as operating activities.
Amount of increase (decrease) in current assets classified as other.
Amount of increase (decrease) in current liabilities classified as other.
Amount of increase (decrease) in noncurrent assets classified as other.
Amount of increase (decrease) in noncurrent operating liabilities classified as other.
Amount of cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities, including discontinued operations. Financing activity cash flows include obtaining resources from owners and providing them with a return on, and a return of, their investment; borrowing money and repaying amounts borrowed, or settling the obligation; and obtaining and paying for other resources obtained from creditors on long-term credit.
Amount of cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities, including discontinued operations. Investing activity cash flows include making and collecting loans and acquiring and disposing of debt or equity instruments and property, plant, and equipment and other productive assets.
Amount of cash inflow (outflow) from operating activities, including discontinued operations. Operating activity cash flows include transactions, adjustments, and changes in value not defined as investing or financing activities.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
Amount of cash (inflow) outflow from investing activities classified as other.
The cash outflow to reacquire common stock during the period.
Amount of cash outflow in the form of ordinary dividends to common shareholders of the parent entity.
The cash outflow associated with the purchase of all investments (debt, security, other) during the period.
The cash outflow associated with the acquisition of long-lived, physical assets that are used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services and not intended for resale; includes cash outflows to pay for construction of self-constructed assets.
The cash inflow from a borrowing having initial term of repayment of more than three months. Includes proceeds from long-term and short-term debt.
The cash inflow from the additional capital contribution to the entity.
Amount of cash inflow from maturity, prepayment and call of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount of cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities classified as other.
The cash inflow from a borrowing net of the cash outflow from repayment of a borrowing having initial term of repayment within three months.
The cash outflow from a repayment of a borrowing having initial term of repayment of more than three months. Includes repayments of short-term and long-term debt.
Amount of noncash expense for share-based payment arrangement.
Amount of increase to additional paid-in capital (APIC) for recognition of cost for award under share-based payment arrangement.
Aggregate dividends declared during the period for each share of common stock outstanding.
Amount of paid and unpaid common stock dividends declared with the form of settlement in cash.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
Amount after tax of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent entity.
Equity impact of the value of new stock issued during the period. Includes shares issued in an initial public offering or a secondary public offering.
Equity impact of the value of stock that has been repurchased and retired during the period. The excess of the purchase price over par value can be charged against retained earnings (once the excess is fully allocated to additional paid in capital).
Amount of equity (deficit) attributable to parent. Excludes temporary equity and equity attributable to noncontrolling interest.
This element represents movements included in the statement of changes in stockholders' equity which are not separately disclosed or provided for elsewhere in the taxonomy.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
Microsoft plays a central role in the world’s digital ecosystem. We have made it the top corporate priority to protect the computing environment used by our customers and employees and to support the resiliency of our cloud infrastructure and services, products, devices, and our internal corporate resources from determined adversaries. In response to the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape, we launched the Secure Future Initiative (“SFI”) in November 2023 and expanded the scope of SFI in May 2024. The SFI focuses our business strategy and efforts on continual improvement in cybersecurity protection, and is aligned around three security principles:
Security comes first when designing any product or service.
Security protections are enabled and enforced by default, require no extra effort, and are not optional.
Security controls and monitoring will continuously be improved to meet current and future threats.
Our computing environments, products, and services are reviewed by our internal audit teams as well as independent third-party assessors. We are committed to managing the most significant risks to our strategies and ambitions, including cybersecurity risks. The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) organization supports management in this commitment by facilitating the semiannual risk assessment, which documents the priority and status of these risks and aligns them with our strategic mitigation efforts.
ERM is structured using a framework based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organization (“COSO”) guidance on Enterprise Risk Management Integrating Strategy with Performance and it also aligns with the International Organization for Standardization 31000:2018 Risk Management Standard.
We continuously monitor our computing environments, products, and services for vulnerabilities and signs of compromise, and we utilize our own security products to combat cybersecurity threats. We integrate security into our computing environments, products, and services through our Security Development Lifecycle (“SDL”). Our SDL introduces security and privacy considerations throughout all phases of our development process and through the adoption of zero-trust end-to-end architecture. We utilize machine learning and AI-powered security tools to gain insights from 84 trillion signals per day. We track over 1,500 unique threat actors, including more than 600 nation-state actors, 300 cybercriminal groups, 200 influence operation groups, and hundreds of others. To support our efforts, we operate a Cyber Defense Operations Center connected to over 10,000 security and threat intelligence experts, including engineers, researchers, data scientists, cybersecurity experts, threat hunters, geopolitical analysts, investigators, and frontline responders across the globe.
When appropriate, we utilize external service providers to assess, test, or otherwise assist our program. We also leverage third parties by working with external researchers, operating bug bounty programs, and managing coordinated vulnerability disclosure programs with security organizations.
We maintain a systematic approach to assessing and controlling the cybersecurity risks presented by third-party service providers. We require third-party service providers to manage their cybersecurity risks in defined ways, undergo cybersecurity reviews, notify us of cyber events, and satisfy additional contractual requirements.
We seek to improve the entire cybersecurity ecosystem through multistakeholder diplomacy to set and uphold expectations for state behavior, advancement of government policy that strengthens cybersecurity and resiliency, disruption and deterrence of cybercrime, protection of national security interests, and disruption of digital threats to democracies. We also establish processes and innovate solutions for us and our customers to address the growing number and complexity of cybersecurity regulations.
When we experience a cybersecurity incident, we utilize our well-established incident response plans that operate both across the company and at the product and services level. Incidents are first triaged for severity, and then more deeply assessed to establish a plan of record and activate internal and external notification, disclosure, and communication plans, as applicable. Engineering and development resources are mobilized to resolve or remediate the incident. After the incident is resolved, a comprehensive post-incident review process is conducted.
We describe the risks from cybersecurity threats, including previous cybersecurity incidents, in section “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). As of the date of this Form 10-K, we do not believe any risks from cybersecurity threats have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our results of operations or financial condition.
However, the cybersecurity threat environment is increasingly challenging, and we, along with the entire digital ecosystem, are under constant and increasing threat. As discussed above, our business strategy is tied to the SFI and we are committed to continuously monitoring cybersecurity threats, enhancing the security of our products, investing in our cybersecurity infrastructure, and collaborating with peers, customers, service providers, regulators, and governments to advance our and the entire digital ecosystem’s cybersecurity defenses and resiliency.
Our Board of Directors oversees cybersecurity risk.
Cybersecurity reviews by the Board are scheduled to occur at least quarterly, or more frequently as determined to be necessary or advisable.
Presentations to the Board of Directors are made by senior management, including our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), our EVP of Microsoft Security, our EVP of Cloud + AI, and the head of our Customer Security and Trust organization.
The presentations address topics such as cybersecurity threats, incidents, top risks and related remediation efforts, results from internal and third-party assessments, progress towards risk-mitigation goals, the functioning of our incident response program, regulatory developments, and digital diplomacy efforts.
In addition, we have an escalation process in place to inform senior management and the Board of significant issues. Cybersecurity issues are also considered during separate Board meeting discussions regarding important matters like ERM, audit issues, operational budgeting, business continuity planning, mergers and acquisitions, brand management, and other relevant matters.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Before joining Microsoft, our CISO served in a prior Chief Technology Officer role as well as in senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles within multiple organizations.
The CGC responsibilities include approving our enterprise security risk assessment process and results, determining the appropriate cybersecurity risk level and mitigations, reviewing the NIST CSF alignment, and supporting compliance with cybersecurity regulations. Our cybersecurity efforts are supported directly by Microsoft’s security and threat intelligence experts and our employees across the company, all of whom receive cybersecurity awareness training and education and are expected to support our efforts.
ERM is structured using a framework based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organization (“COSO”) guidance on Enterprise Risk Management Integrating Strategy with Performance and it also aligns with the International Organization for Standardization 31000:2018 Risk Management Standard.
Our Board of Directors oversees cybersecurity risk.
Cybersecurity reviews by the Board are scheduled to occur at least quarterly, or more frequently as determined to be necessary or advisable.
Presentations to the Board of Directors are made by senior management, including our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), our EVP of Microsoft Security, our EVP of Cloud + AI, and the head of our Customer Security and Trust organization.
The presentations address topics such as cybersecurity threats, incidents, top risks and related remediation efforts, results from internal and third-party assessments, progress towards risk-mitigation goals, the functioning of our incident response program, regulatory developments, and digital diplomacy efforts.
In addition, we have an escalation process in place to inform senior management and the Board of significant issues. Cybersecurity issues are also considered during separate Board meeting discussions regarding important matters like ERM, audit issues, operational budgeting, business continuity planning, mergers and acquisitions, brand management, and other relevant matters.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Before joining Microsoft, our CISO served in a prior Chief Technology Officer role as well as in senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles within multiple organizations.
The CGC responsibilities include approving our enterprise security risk assessment process and results, determining the appropriate cybersecurity risk level and mitigations, reviewing the NIST CSF alignment, and supporting compliance with cybersecurity regulations. Our cybersecurity efforts are supported directly by Microsoft’s security and threat intelligence experts and our employees across the company, all of whom receive cybersecurity awareness training and education and are expected to support our efforts.
In addition, we have an escalation process in place to inform senior management and the Board of significant issues. Cybersecurity issues are also considered during separate Board meeting discussions regarding important matters like ERM, audit issues, operational budgeting, business continuity planning, mergers and acquisitions, brand management, and other relevant matters.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Before joining Microsoft, our CISO served in a prior Chief Technology Officer role as well as in senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles within multiple organizations.
The CGC responsibilities include approving our enterprise security risk assessment process and results, determining the appropriate cybersecurity risk level and mitigations, reviewing the NIST CSF alignment, and supporting compliance with cybersecurity regulations. Our cybersecurity efforts are supported directly by Microsoft’s security and threat intelligence experts and our employees across the company, all of whom receive cybersecurity awareness training and education and are expected to support our efforts.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Our CISO has extensive experience assessing and managing cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity risk.
Before joining Microsoft, our CISO served in a prior Chief Technology Officer role as well as in senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles within multiple organizations.
Presentations to the Board of Directors are made by senior management, including our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), our EVP of Microsoft Security, our EVP of Cloud + AI, and the head of our Customer Security and Trust organization.
The presentations address topics such as cybersecurity threats, incidents, top risks and related remediation efforts, results from internal and third-party assessments, progress towards risk-mitigation goals, the functioning of our incident response program, regulatory developments, and digital diplomacy efforts.
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business during fiscal year 2025. These changes primarily impacted Note 8 – Goodwill, Note 12 – Unearned Revenue, and Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
The recast of prior period information had no impact on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated income statements, or consolidated cash flows statements.
Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples of estimates and assumptions include: for revenue recognition, determining the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations, and determining the standalone selling price ("SSP") of performance obligations, variable consideration, and other obligations such as product returns and refunds; loss contingencies; the fair value of and/or potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; when technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the potential outcome of uncertain tax positions that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns; and determining the timing and amount of impairments for investments. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management’s estimates and assumptions due to risks and uncertainties.
Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to other comprehensive income.
Product revenue includes sales from operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, video games, and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, and gaming; solution support; and consulting services. Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer. Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources. When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”). SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently. On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA. Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
Revenue from search advertising is recognized when the advertisement appears in the search results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been completed. Revenue from consulting services is recognized as services are provided.
Our hardware is generally highly dependent on, and interrelated with, the underlying operating system and cannot function without the operating system. In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue by significant product and service offering.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP.
Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers.
Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented.
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. We record a receivable when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or unearned revenue when revenue is recognized subsequent to invoicing. For multi-year agreements, we generally invoice customers annually at the beginning of each annual coverage period. We record a receivable related to revenue recognized for multi-year on-premises licenses as we have an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment in the future related to those licenses.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and SA. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future, LinkedIn subscriptions, Office 365 subscriptions, Xbox subscriptions, Windows post-delivery support, Dynamics business solutions, and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 12 – Unearned Revenue for further information, including unearned revenue by segment and changes in unearned revenue during the period.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers or to provide customers with financing. Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
We record an allowance for doubtful accounts which reflects our best estimate of credit losses inherent in the accounts receivable and financing receivable balances. We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence.
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. We have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other current and long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
We apply a practical expedient to expense costs as incurred for costs to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs include our internal sales organization compensation program and certain partner sales incentive programs as we have determined annual compensation is commensurate with annual sales activities.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the depreciation and amortization of assets used to conduct research and development. Such costs related to software development are included in research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our software products is generally shortly before the products are released to production. Once technological feasibility is reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the estimated lives of the products.
Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance stock units (“PSUs”), is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service or performance period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. We measure the fair value of PSUs using a Monte Carlo valuation model. Compensation cost for RSUs is recognized using the straight-line method and for PSUs is recognized using the accelerated method.
Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) is measured as the discount the employee is entitled to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of purchase.
Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes, and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term in our consolidated balance sheets.
We consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations.
Debt investments are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in fair value, excluding credit losses and impairments, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Fair value is calculated based on publicly available market information or other estimates determined by management. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. To determine credit losses, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.
Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured at fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments (referred to as the measurement alternative). We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis and recognize an impairment if there are sufficient indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. Changes in value are recorded in other income (expense), net.
Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.
For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other income (expense), net with offsetting gains and losses on the hedged items. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized in other income (expense), net with the corresponding hedged item. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains and losses from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
We account for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market. We categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:
We measure equity investments without readily determinable fair values on a nonrecurring basis. The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections.
Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, other current liabilities, and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the estimated rate of interest for collateralized borrowing over a similar term of the lease payments at commencement date. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For certain equipment leases, such as vehicles, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
Our intangible assets are subject to amortization and are amortized over the estimated useful life in proportion to the economic benefits received. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired.
In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard to improve reportable segment disclosures. The guidance expands the disclosures required for reportable segments in our annual and interim consolidated financial statements, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. We adopted the standard beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2025. The adoption resulted in incremental segment reporting disclosures, most notably disclosure of cost of revenue and operating expenses for each reportable segment. Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
In December 2023, the FASB issued a new standard to improve income tax disclosures. The guidance requires disclosure of disaggregated income taxes paid, prescribes standardized categories for the components of the effective tax rate reconciliation, and modifies other income tax-related disclosures. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2026, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our income tax disclosures.
In November 2024, the FASB issued a new standard to expand disclosures about income statement expenses. The guidance requires disaggregation of certain costs and expenses included in each relevant expense caption on our consolidated income statements in a separate note to the financial statements at each interim and annual reporting period, including amounts of purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation, and intangible asset amortization. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2028 and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures.
The entire disclosure for all significant accounting policies of the reporting entity.
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.
The components of basic and diluted EPS were as follows:
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations of diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented.
The entire disclosure for earnings per share.
The components of other income (expense), net were as follows:
Other, net primarily reflects net recognized losses on equity method investments, including OpenAI.
Net recognized gains (losses) on debt investments were as follows:
Net recognized gains (losses) on equity investments were as follows:
The entire disclosure for the components of non-operating income or non-operating expense, including, but not limited to, amounts earned from dividends, interest on securities, gain (loss) on securities sold, equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, gain (loss) on sales of business, interest expense and other miscellaneous income or expense items.
The components of investments were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments.
Debt investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months or greater and their related fair values were as follows:
Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent impairments based on our evaluation of available evidence.
The entire disclosure for cash, cash equivalents, investments in debt and equity instruments (including cost and equity investees and related income statement amounts), equity and cost method investments, investments in joint ventures and any other investment.
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions.
Foreign currency risks related to certain Euro-denominated debt are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedging instruments.
Certain options and forwards not designated as hedging instruments are also used to manage the variability in foreign exchange rates on certain balance sheet amounts and to manage other foreign currency exposures.
Interest rate risks related to certain fixed-rate debt are hedged using interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedging instruments to effectively convert the fixed interest rates to floating interest rates.
Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain broad-based fixed-income indices using option, futures, and swap contracts. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are included in “Other contracts” in the tables below.
Securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to market price risk. At times, we may hold options, futures, and swap contracts. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments.
Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We use credit default swap contracts to manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are included in “Other contracts” in the tables below.
The following table presents the notional amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments measured in U.S. dollar equivalents:
The following table presents our derivative instruments:
The following table presents the fair value of our derivatives instruments on a gross basis:
Gains (losses), net of tax, on derivative instruments recognized in our consolidated comprehensive income statements were as follows:
The entire disclosure for derivative instruments and hedging activities including, but not limited to, risk management strategies, non-hedging derivative instruments, assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and methodologies and assumptions used in determining the amounts.
The components of property and equipment were as follows:
The entire disclosure for long-lived, physical asset used in normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, work of art, historical treasure, and similar asset classified as collections.
The allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was completed as of September 30, 2024.
The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows:
Goodwill was assigned to our More Personal Computing segment. The goodwill was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Activision Blizzard. Substantially all of the goodwill is expected to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:
Following are the supplemental consolidated financial results of Microsoft Corporation on an unaudited pro forma basis, as if the acquisition had been consummated on July 1, 2022:
These pro forma results were based on estimates and assumptions, which we believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had we been a combined company during the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations in future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments related to purchase accounting, primarily amortization of intangible assets. Acquisition costs and other nonrecurring charges were immaterial and are included in the earliest period presented.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
The measurement periods for the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a change in the amounts allocated to goodwill during the periods in which the adjustments are determined.
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented as “Other” in the table above. Also included in “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.
We test goodwill for impairment annually on May 1 at the reporting unit level, primarily using a discounted cash flow methodology with a peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. We believe use of a discounted cash flow approach is the most reliable indicator of the fair values of the businesses.
The entire disclosure for goodwill.
The components of intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as follows:
No material impairments of intangible assets were identified during fiscal years 2025, 2024, or 2023. We estimate that we have no significant residual value related to our intangible assets.
The components of intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as follows:
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets held as of June 30, 2025:
The entire disclosure for all or part of the information related to intangible assets.
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the interest rate swaps related to fixed-rate debt.
The following table outlines maturities of our long-term debt, including the current portion, as of June 30, 2025:
The entire disclosure for information about short-term and long-term debt arrangements, which includes amounts of borrowings under each line of credit, note payable, commercial paper issue, bonds indenture, debenture issue, own-share lending arrangements and any other contractual agreement to repay funds, and about the underlying arrangements, rationale for a classification as long-term, including repayment terms, interest rates, collateral provided, restrictions on use of assets and activities, whether or not in compliance with debt covenants, and other matters important to users of the financial statements, such as the effects of refinancing and noncompliance with debt covenants.
The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:
U.S. and foreign components of income before income taxes were as follows:
The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective rate were as follows:
Other reconciling items, net consists primarily of tax credits and the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income tax, and in fiscal year 2024, includes tax benefits from tax law changes. In fiscal year 2024, tax benefits from tax law changes primarily relate to the delay of the effective date of final foreign tax credit regulations. In fiscal years 2025, 2024, and 2023, there were no individually significant other reconciling items.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2025 compared to fiscal year 2024 was due to changes in the mix of our earnings and tax expenses between the U.S. and foreign countries. The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to tax benefits from tax law changes, including the delay of the effective date of final foreign tax credit regulations.
The components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid or recovered.
The valuation allowance disclosed in the table above relates to the foreign net operating loss carryforwards, federal capital loss carryforwards, and other net deferred tax assets that may not be realized.
The aggregate changes in the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions were as follows:
The entire disclosure for income tax.
Unearned revenue by segment was as follows:
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
Changes in unearned revenue were as follows:
The entire disclosure of revenue from contract with customer to transfer good or service and to transfer nonfinancial asset. Includes, but is not limited to, disaggregation of revenue, credit loss recognized from contract with customer, judgment and change in judgment related to contract with customer, and asset recognized from cost incurred to obtain or fulfill contract with customer. Excludes insurance and lease contracts.
The components of lease expense were as follows:
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows:
The entire disclosure for operating and finance leases of lessee. Includes, but is not limited to, description of operating and finance leases and maturity analysis of operating and finance lease liabilities.
In 2018, the Irish Data Protection Commission (“IDPC”) began investigating a complaint against LinkedIn as to whether LinkedIn’s targeted advertising practices violated the recently implemented European Union General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). Microsoft cooperated throughout the period of inquiry. In October 2024, the IDPC provided LinkedIn with a final decision alleging GDPR violations and assessing a fine. In November 2024, LinkedIn appealed the final decision to the Irish courts, and the next hearing is scheduled for December 2025.
We also are subject to a variety of other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against us, individually or in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.
The entire disclosure for legal proceedings, legal contingencies, litigation, regulatory and environmental matters and other contingencies.
Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:
We repurchased the following shares of common stock under the share repurchase programs:
Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends:
The dividend declared on June 10, 2025 was included in other current liabilities as of June 30, 2025.
The entire disclosure for equity.
The entire disclosure for comprehensive income, which includes, but is not limited to, 1) the amount of income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income, including reclassification adjustments, 2) the reclassification adjustments for each classification of other comprehensive income and 3) the ending accumulated balances for each component of comprehensive income.
We grant stock-based compensation to employees and directors. Awards that expire or are canceled without delivery of shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. We issue new shares of Microsoft common stock to satisfy vesting of awards granted under our stock plans. We also have an ESPP for all eligible employees.
Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were as follows:
The fair value of stock awards was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:
Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented:
The entire disclosure for an entity's employee compensation and benefit plans, including, but not limited to, postemployment and postretirement benefit plans, defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, non-qualified and supplemental benefit plans, deferred compensation, share-based compensation, life insurance, severance, health care, unemployment and other benefit plans.
The CODM uses operating income to allocate resources during our annual planning process and throughout the year, as well as to assess the performance of our segments, primarily by monitoring actual results compared to prior periods and expected results.
During the periods presented, we reported our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business. Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies for further information.
Our reportable segments are described below.
Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises:
Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft 365 Commercial products, comprising Windows Commercial on-premises and Office licensed on-premises.
Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other consumer services.
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises:
Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services, comprising cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services; and Server products, comprising SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”), and other on-premises offerings.
Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises:
Windows and Devices, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel) and Devices, comprising Surface and PC accessories.
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, and other cloud services.
Search and news advertising, comprising Bing and Copilot, Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates.
Segment revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and operating income were as follows during the periods presented:
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States accounted for more than 10% of revenue for fiscal years 2025, 2024, or 2023.
Revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers were located, was as follows:
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.
Revenue, classified by significant product and service offerings, was as follows:
Assets are not allocated to segments for internal reporting presentations. A portion of amortization and depreciation is included with various other costs in an overhead allocation to each segment. It is impracticable for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment profit or loss.
Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified by the location of the controlling statutory company and with countries over 10% of the total shown separately, were as follows:
The entire disclosure for reporting segments including data and tables. Reportable segments include those that meet any of the following quantitative thresholds a) it's reported revenue, including sales to external customers and intersegment sales or transfers is 10 percent or more of the combined revenue, internal and external, of all operating segments b) the absolute amount of its reported profit or loss is 10 percent or more of the greater, in absolute amount of 1) the combined reported profit of all operating segments that did not report a loss or 2) the combined reported loss of all operating segments that did report a loss c) its assets are 10 percent or more of the combined assets of all operating segments.
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business during fiscal year 2025. These changes primarily impacted Note 8 – Goodwill, Note 12 – Unearned Revenue, and Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
The recast of prior period information had no impact on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated income statements, or consolidated cash flows statements.
Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples of estimates and assumptions include: for revenue recognition, determining the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations, and determining the standalone selling price ("SSP") of performance obligations, variable consideration, and other obligations such as product returns and refunds; loss contingencies; the fair value of and/or potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; when technological feasibility is achieved for our products; the potential outcome of uncertain tax positions that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns; and determining the timing and amount of impairments for investments. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management’s estimates and assumptions due to risks and uncertainties.
Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded to other comprehensive income.
Product revenue includes sales from operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, video games, and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, and gaming; solution support; and consulting services. Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer. Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources. When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”). SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently. On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA. Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
Revenue from search advertising is recognized when the advertisement appears in the search results or when the action necessary to earn the revenue has been completed. Revenue from consulting services is recognized as services are provided.
Our hardware is generally highly dependent on, and interrelated with, the underlying operating system and cannot function without the operating system. In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue by significant product and service offering.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP.
Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers.
Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented.
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. We record a receivable when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or unearned revenue when revenue is recognized subsequent to invoicing. For multi-year agreements, we generally invoice customers annually at the beginning of each annual coverage period. We record a receivable related to revenue recognized for multi-year on-premises licenses as we have an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment in the future related to those licenses.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and SA. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future, LinkedIn subscriptions, Office 365 subscriptions, Xbox subscriptions, Windows post-delivery support, Dynamics business solutions, and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 12 – Unearned Revenue for further information, including unearned revenue by segment and changes in unearned revenue during the period.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers or to provide customers with financing. Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
We record an allowance for doubtful accounts which reflects our best estimate of credit losses inherent in the accounts receivable and financing receivable balances. We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence.
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. We have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other current and long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
We apply a practical expedient to expense costs as incurred for costs to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs include our internal sales organization compensation program and certain partner sales incentive programs as we have determined annual compensation is commensurate with annual sales activities.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the depreciation and amortization of assets used to conduct research and development. Such costs related to software development are included in research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility is reached, which for our software products is generally shortly before the products are released to production. Once technological feasibility is reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the estimated lives of the products.
Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance stock units (“PSUs”), is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service or performance period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. We measure the fair value of PSUs using a Monte Carlo valuation model. Compensation cost for RSUs is recognized using the straight-line method and for PSUs is recognized using the accelerated method.
Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) is measured as the discount the employee is entitled to upon purchase and is recognized in the period of purchase.
Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes, and interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net of a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term in our consolidated balance sheets.
We consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations.
Debt investments are classified as available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes in fair value, excluding credit losses and impairments, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Fair value is calculated based on publicly available market information or other estimates determined by management. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. To determine credit losses, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments.
Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured at fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments (referred to as the measurement alternative). We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis and recognize an impairment if there are sufficient indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. Changes in value are recorded in other income (expense), net.
Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.
For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other income (expense), net with offsetting gains and losses on the hedged items. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized in other income (expense), net with the corresponding hedged item. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains and losses from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net.
We account for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market. We categorize each of our fair value measurements in one of these three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:
We measure equity investments without readily determinable fair values on a nonrecurring basis. The fair values of these investments are determined based on valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections.
Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, other current liabilities, and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the estimated rate of interest for collateralized borrowing over a similar term of the lease payments at commencement date. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For certain equipment leases, such as vehicles, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
Our intangible assets are subject to amortization and are amortized over the estimated useful life in proportion to the economic benefits received. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired.
In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard to improve reportable segment disclosures. The guidance expands the disclosures required for reportable segments in our annual and interim consolidated financial statements, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. We adopted the standard beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2025. The adoption resulted in incremental segment reporting disclosures, most notably disclosure of cost of revenue and operating expenses for each reportable segment. Refer to Note 18 – Segment Information and Geographic Data.
In December 2023, the FASB issued a new standard to improve income tax disclosures. The guidance requires disclosure of disaggregated income taxes paid, prescribes standardized categories for the components of the effective tax rate reconciliation, and modifies other income tax-related disclosures. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2026, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our income tax disclosures.
In November 2024, the FASB issued a new standard to expand disclosures about income statement expenses. The guidance requires disaggregation of certain costs and expenses included in each relevant expense caption on our consolidated income statements in a separate note to the financial statements at each interim and annual reporting period, including amounts of purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation, and intangible asset amortization. The standard will be effective for us beginning with our annual reporting for fiscal year 2028 and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures.
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.
Assets are not allocated to segments for internal reporting presentations. A portion of amortization and depreciation is included with various other costs in an overhead allocation to each segment. It is impracticable for us to separately identify the amount of amortization and depreciation by segment that is included in the measure of segment profit or loss.
Disclosure of accounting policy for recasting of certain prior period information.
Disclosure of accounting policy for related party transactions.
Describes the entity's policies for sales and marketing expenses, which include payroll and related costs for sales and marketing personnel and costs of advertising (such as promotions, tradeshows and seminars).
Disclosure of accounting policy for basis of accounting, or basis of presentation, used to prepare the financial statements (for example, US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Other Comprehensive Basis of Accounting, IFRS).
Disclosure of accounting policy regarding (1) the principles it follows in consolidating or combining the separate financial statements, including the principles followed in determining the inclusion or exclusion of subsidiaries or other entities in the consolidated or combined financial statements and (2) its treatment of interests (for example, common stock, a partnership interest or other means of exerting influence) in other entities, for example consolidation or use of the equity or cost methods of accounting. The accounting policy may also address the accounting treatment for intercompany accounts and transactions, noncontrolling interest, and the income statement treatment in consolidation for issuances of stock by a subsidiary.
Disclosure of accounting policy for cost of product sold and service rendered.
Disclosure of accounting policy for its derivative instruments and hedging activities.
Disclosure of accounting policy for computing basic and diluted earnings or loss per share for each class of common stock and participating security. Addresses all significant policy factors, including any antidilutive items that have been excluded from the computation and takes into account stock dividends, splits and reverse splits that occur after the balance sheet date of the latest reporting period but before the issuance of the financial statements.
Disclosure of accounting policy for determining the fair value of financial instruments.
Disclosure of accounting policy for (1) transactions denominated in a currency other than the reporting enterprise's functional currency, (2) translating foreign currency financial statements that are incorporated into the financial statements of the reporting enterprise by consolidation, combination, or the equity method of accounting, and (3) remeasurement of the financial statements of a foreign reporting enterprise in a hyperinflationary economy.
Disclosure of accounting policy for goodwill. This accounting policy also may address how an entity assesses and measures impairment of goodwill, how reporting units are determined, how goodwill is allocated to such units, and how the fair values of the reporting units are determined.
Disclosure of accounting policy for income taxes, which may include its accounting policies for recognizing and measuring deferred tax assets and liabilities and related valuation allowances, recognizing investment tax credits, operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards, and other carryforwards, methodologies for determining its effective income tax rate and the characterization of interest and penalties in the financial statements.
Disclosure of accounting policy for finite-lived intangible assets. This accounting policy also might address: (1) the amortization method used; (2) the useful lives of such assets; and (3) how the entity assesses and measures impairment of such assets.
Disclosure of accounting policy for investment in financial asset.
Disclosure of accounting policy for leasing arrangement entered into by lessee.
Disclosure of accounting policy pertaining to new accounting pronouncements that may impact the entity's financial reporting. Includes, but is not limited to, quantification of the expected or actual impact.
Disclosure of accounting policy for long-lived, physical asset used in normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, work of art, historical treasure, and similar asset classified as collections.
Disclosure of accounting policy for its research and development and computer software activities including the accounting treatment for costs incurred for (1) research and development activities, (2) development of computer software for internal use, (3) computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process and (4) in-process research and development acquired in a purchase business combination.
Disclosure of accounting policy for revenue from contract with customer.
Disclosure of accounting policy for segment reporting.
Disclosure of accounting policy for award under share-based payment arrangement. Includes, but is not limited to, methodology and assumption used in measuring cost.
Disclosure of accounting policy for the use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
The components of basic and diluted EPS were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of an entity's basic and diluted earnings per share calculations, including a reconciliation of numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted per-share computations for income from continuing operations.
The components of other income (expense), net were as follows:
Net recognized gains (losses) on debt investments were as follows:
Net recognized gains (losses) on equity investments were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investment in security.
Tabular disclosure of realized gains and losses on investments reported in the statement of income.
Tabular disclosure of the components of non-operating income or non-operating expense that may include amounts earned from dividends, interest on securities, gains (losses) on securities sold, equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net gain (loss) on sales of business, interest expense and other miscellaneous income or expense items.
The components of investments were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments.
Debt investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than 12 months and 12 months or greater and their related fair values were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of the components of cash, cash equivalents, and investments.
A tabular disclosure of the aggregate related fair value of debt investments with unrealized losses and the aggregate amount of unrealized losses.
Tabular disclosure of maturities of an entity's investments as well as any other information pertinent to the investments.
The following table presents the notional amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments measured in U.S. dollar equivalents:
The following table presents our derivative instruments:
The following table presents the fair value of our derivatives instruments on a gross basis:
Gains (losses), net of tax, on derivative instruments recognized in our consolidated comprehensive income statements were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of the location and amount of derivative instruments and nonderivative instruments designated as hedging instruments reported before netting adjustments, and the amount of gain (loss) on derivative instruments and nonderivative instruments designated and qualified as hedging instruments.
Tabular disclosure of the location and fair value amounts of derivative instruments (and nonderivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments) reported in the statement of financial position.
Tabular disclosure of the notional amounts of outstanding derivative positions.
The components of property and equipment were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Includes, but is not limited to, balances by class of assets, depreciation and depletion expense and method used, including composite depreciation, and accumulated deprecation.
The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows:
Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:
Following are the supplemental consolidated financial results of Microsoft Corporation on an unaudited pro forma basis, as if the acquisition had been consummated on July 1, 2022:
Tabular disclosure of pro forma results of operations for a material business acquisition or series of individually immaterial business acquisitions that are material in the aggregate.
Tabular disclosure of finite-lived intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination or through an asset purchase, by major class and in total, including the value of the asset acquired, any significant residual value (the expected value of the asset at the end of its useful life) and the weighted-average amortization period.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of goodwill by reportable segment and in total which includes a rollforward schedule.
The components of intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as follows:
The components of intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were as follows:
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets held as of June 30, 2025:
Tabular disclosure of the characteristics, including initial carrying value, residual amount, weighted average useful life, of finite-lived intangible assets acquired during the period by major class. A major class is composed of intangible assets that can be grouped together because they are similar, either by nature or by their use in the operations of the company.
Tabular disclosure of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life, by either major class or business segment.
Tabular disclosure of the amount of amortization expense expected to be recorded in succeeding fiscal years for finite-lived intangible assets.
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the interest rate swaps related to fixed-rate debt.
The following table outlines maturities of our long-term debt, including the current portion, as of June 30, 2025:
Tabular disclosure of long-debt instruments or arrangements, including identification, terms, features, collateral requirements and other information necessary to a fair presentation. These are debt arrangements that originally required repayment more than twelve months after issuance or greater than the normal operating cycle of the entity, if longer.
Tabular disclosure of maturity and sinking fund requirement for long-term debt.
The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:
U.S. and foreign components of income before income taxes were as follows:
The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate and our effective rate were as follows:
The components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
The aggregate changes in the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of the components of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for each year presented including, but not limited to: current tax expense (benefit), deferred tax expense (benefit), investment tax credits, government grants, the benefits of operating loss carryforwards, tax expense that results from allocating certain tax benefits either directly to contributed capital or to reduce goodwill or other noncurrent intangible assets of an acquired entity, adjustments of a deferred tax liability or asset for enacted changes in tax laws or rates or a change in the tax status of the entity, and adjustments of the beginning-of-the-year balances of a valuation allowance because of a change in circumstances that causes a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset in future years.
Tabular disclosure of the components of net deferred tax asset or liability recognized in an entity's statement of financial position, including the following: the total of all deferred tax liabilities, the total of all deferred tax assets, the total valuation allowance recognized for deferred tax assets.
Tabular disclosure of the reconciliation using percentage or dollar amounts of the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to continuing operations for the year to the amount of income tax expense that would result from applying domestic federal statutory tax rates to pretax income from continuing operations.
Tabular disclosure of income before income tax between domestic and foreign jurisdictions.
Tabular disclosure of the change in unrecognized tax benefits.
Unearned revenue by segment was as follows:
Changes in unearned revenue were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of contract balances by reportable segment.
Tabular disclosure of receivable, contract asset, and contract liability from contract with customer. Includes, but is not limited to, change in contract asset and contract liability.
The components of lease expense were as follows:
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows:
Schedule of maturities of operating and finance leases liabilities.
Schedule of supplemental balance sheet information related to leases.
Schedule of supplemental cash flow information related to leases.
Tabular disclosure of lessee's lease cost. Includes, but is not limited to, interest expense for finance lease, amortization of right-of-use asset for finance lease, operating lease cost, short-term lease cost, variable lease cost and sublease income.
Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:
We repurchased the following shares of common stock under the share repurchase programs:
Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends:
Tabular disclosure of the company's share repurchase activity.
Tabular disclosure of information related to dividends declared, including paid and unpaid dividends.
Tabular disclosure of the change in common stock outstanding.
Tabular disclosure of the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were as follows:
The fair value of stock awards was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:
Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented:
Tabular disclosure of the significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair value of stock awards.
Tabular disclosure of share-based payment arrangement.
Tabular disclosure of cost recognized for award under share-based payment arrangement by plan. Includes, but is not limited to, related tax benefit.
Tabular disclosure of employee stock purchase plan activity.
Segment revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and operating income were as follows during the periods presented:
Revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers were located, was as follows:
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.
Revenue, classified by significant product and service offerings, was as follows:
Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified by the location of the controlling statutory company and with countries over 10% of the total shown separately, were as follows:
Tabular disclosure of long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a financial institution, mortgage rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets, by geographic areas located in the entity's country of domicile and foreign countries in which the entity holds assets.
Tabular disclosure of revenue from external customers by geographic areas attributed to the entity's country of domicile and to foreign countries from which the entity derives revenue.
Tabular disclosure of entity-wide revenues from external customers for each product or service or each group of similar products or services if the information is not provided as part of the reportable operating segment information.
Tabular disclosure of the profit or loss and total assets for each reportable segment. An entity discloses certain information on each reportable segment if the amounts (a) are included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker or (b) are otherwise regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker, even if not included in that measure of segment profit or loss.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
Total funding commitments made related to equity method investments.
Amount, after allowance for credit loss, of financing receivable.
Other receivables related to purchase of components.
Amount, after allowance for credit loss, of right to consideration from customer for product sold and service rendered in normal course of business, classified as noncurrent.
Amount charged to advertising expense for the period, which are expenses incurred with the objective of increasing revenue for a specified brand, product or product line.
Useful life of long lived, physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents the reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days. Examples include, but not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and computer equipment.
Description of payment terms in contract with customer. Includes, but is not limited to, timing of payment, existence of financing component, variability of consideration and constraint on variable consideration.
Earning per share basic and diluted abstract.
The amount of net income (loss) for the period per each share of common stock or unit outstanding during the reporting period.
The amount of net income (loss) for the period available to each share of common stock or common unit outstanding during the reporting period and to each share or unit that would have been outstanding assuming the issuance of common shares or units for all dilutive potential common shares or units outstanding during the reporting period.
Additional shares included in the calculation of diluted EPS as a result of the potentially dilutive effect of share based payment arrangements using the treasury stock method.
The portion of profit or loss for the period, net of income taxes, which is attributable to the parent.
The average number of shares or units issued and outstanding that are used in calculating diluted EPS or earnings per unit (EPU), determined based on the timing of issuance of shares or units in the period.
Number of [basic] shares or units, after adjustment for contingently issuable shares or units and other shares or units not deemed outstanding, determined by relating the portion of time within a reporting period that common shares or units have been outstanding to the total time in that period.
Amount, before tax, of realized and unrealized gain (loss) from foreign currency transaction.
Aggregate net gain (loss) on all derivative instruments recognized in earnings during the period, before tax effects.
Amount of realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investment.
Amount of interest expense classified as nonoperating.
Amount after accretion (amortization) of discount (premium), and investment expense, of interest income and dividend income on nonoperating securities.
The aggregate amount of income or expense from ancillary business-related activities (that is to say, excluding major activities considered part of the normal operations of the business).
Amount of income (expense) related to nonoperating activities, classified as other.
The summation of credit loss allowance and impairment on debt securities. The credit loss allowance represents the decline in fair value below cost due to credit related factors. The impairment represents the decline in fair value below cost for securities which the entity either plans to sell or more likely than not will be required to sell before recovery.
Amount of realized gain on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount of realized loss on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount of realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investment.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
The summation of impairment on equity securities, representing the decline in fair value below cost.
Amount of realized gain (loss) from sale of investment in equity security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in net income (FV-NI).
Amount of unrealized gain (loss) on investment in equity security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in net income (FV-NI).
Amount of realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investment.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments.
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments.
Amount, before tax, of unrealized gain in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount, before tax, of unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amortized cost of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amount of currency on hand as well as demand deposits with banks or financial institutions. Includes other kinds of accounts that have the general characteristics of demand deposits. Excludes cash and cash equivalents within disposal group and discontinued operation.
Amount of currency on hand as well as demand deposits with banks or financial institutions. Includes other kinds of accounts that have the general characteristics of demand deposits. Also includes short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. Excludes cash and cash equivalents within disposal group and discontinued operation.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Amount of investment in equity security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in net income (FV-NI), classified as noncurrent.
The total amount of investments that are intended to be held for an extended period of time (longer than one operating cycle).
Amount of investments including trading securities, available-for-sale securities, held-to-maturity securities, and short-term investments classified as other and current.
This item represents the carrying amount on the entity's balance sheet of its investment in common stock of an equity method investee. This is not an indicator of the fair value of the investment, rather it is the initial cost adjusted for the entity's share of earnings and losses of the investee, adjusted for any distributions (dividends) and other than temporary impairment (OTTI) losses recognized.
Amount of investment in equity security without readily determinable fair value.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in continuous unrealized loss position for more than 12 months, without allowance for credit loss. Includes beneficial interest in securitized financial asset.
Amount of accumulated unrealized loss on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or longer, without allowance for credit loss. Includes beneficial interest in securitized financial asset.
Amount of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months, without allowance for credit loss. Includes beneficial interest in securitized financial asset.
Amount of accumulated unrealized loss on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months, without allowance for credit loss. Includes beneficial interest in securitized financial asset.
Amount of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in unrealized loss position without allowance for credit loss.
Amount of accumulated unrealized loss on investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), in unrealized loss position, without allowance for credit loss. Includes beneficial interest in securitized financial asset.
Amortized cost of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
Amortized cost of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in next rolling fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Fair value of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in next rolling fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Amortized cost of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing after rolling tenth fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Fair value of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing after rolling tenth fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Amortized cost of investment in debt security, measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in rolling sixth through tenth fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Fair value of investment in debt security, measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in rolling sixth through tenth fiscal year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Amortized cost of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in next rolling fiscal year through fifth year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Fair value of investment in debt security, measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale), with single maturity date and allocated without single maturity date, maturing in next rolling fiscal year through fifth year following latest fiscal year. For interim and annual periods when interim period is reported on rolling approach, from latest statement of financial position date.
Amount of investment in debt security measured at fair value with change in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (available-for-sale).
The minimum liquidity for the period as required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
The minimum liquidity required by certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments.
Description of the credit rating indicative of likelihood of repayment of the debt instrument given by a credit rating agency (for example, Standard and Poor's, Moody's, Fitch).
Fair value, before effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes assets elected not to be offset. Excludes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement.
Fair value, before effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes liabilities elected not to be offset. Excludes liabilities not subject to a master netting arrangement.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Nominal or face amount used to calculate payment on derivative.
Derivative asset statement of financial position extensible enumeration not disclosed flag.
Derivative liability statement of financial position extensible enumeration not disclosed flag.
Indicates line item in statement of financial position that includes derivative asset classified as current.
Fair value, before effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and elected not to be offset.
Fair value of liability associated with financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset.
Indicates line item in statement of financial position that includes derivative asset classified as noncurrent.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset, expected to be settled within one year or normal operating cycle, if longer. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial asset or other contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset, expected to be settled after one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Amount of obligation to return cash collateral under master netting arrangements that have not been offset against derivative assets.
Amount of right to receive cash collateral under master netting arrangements that have not been offset against derivative liabilities.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes liabilities not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset, expected to be settled within one year or normal operating cycle, if longer. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Fair value, after the effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset, expected to be settled after one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer. Includes assets not subject to a master netting arrangement and not elected to be offset.
Indicates line item in statement of financial position that includes derivative liability classified as current.
Fair value of asset associated with financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset.
Fair value, before effects of master netting arrangements, of a financial liability or contract with one or more underlyings, notional amount or payment provision or both, and the contract can be net settled by means outside the contract or delivery of an asset. Includes liabilities not subject to a master netting arrangement and elected not to be offset.
Indicates line item in statement of financial position that includes derivative liability classified as noncurrent.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of gain (loss) from the increase (decrease) in fair value of derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as fair value hedging instruments recognized in the income statement.
Amount of the increase (decrease) in fair value of the hedged item in a fair value hedge recognized in the income statement.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of realized and unrealized gain (loss) of derivative instruments not designated or qualifying as hedging instruments.
Amount, before tax, of reclassification of gain (loss) from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) for derivative instrument designated and qualifying as cash flow hedge included in assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount, after tax and before reclassification, of gain (loss) from derivative instrument designated and qualifying as cash flow hedge included in assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Amount of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization for physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services.
Amount before accumulated depreciation of building structures held for productive use including addition, improvement, or renovation to the structure, including, but not limited to, interior masonry, interior flooring, electrical, and plumbing.
Amount before accumulated depreciation of equipment commonly used in offices and stores that have no permanent connection to the structure of a building or utilities. Examples include, but are not limited to, desks, chairs, tables, and bookcases.
Amount before accumulated depletion of real estate held for productive use, excluding land held for sale.
Amount before accumulated depreciation of additions or improvements to assets held under a lease arrangement.
Amount before accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures.
Amount after accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services and not intended for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures.
Purchases of property and equipment remaining in accounts payable.
Fair value portion of arrangements with third parties, including, but not limited to, operating lease arrangement and arrangement in which the entity has agreed to expend funds to procure goods or services, or has agreed to commit resources to supply goods or services.
The amount of expense recognized in the current period that reflects the allocation of the cost of tangible assets over the assets' useful lives. Includes production and non-production related depreciation.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Business Combinations - Additional Information (Detail) - Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Date when the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree, in YYYY-MM-DD format.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of consideration transferred, consisting of acquisition-date fair value of assets transferred by the acquirer, liabilities incurred by the acquirer, and equity interest issued by the acquirer.
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed income tax liabilities noncurrent.
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, other current and noncurrent assets.
Business combination recognized identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, other current and noncurrent liabilities.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of currency on hand as well as demand deposits with banks or financial institutions, acquired at the acquisition date. Includes other kinds of accounts that have the general characteristics of demand deposits. Also includes short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable temporary differences assumed at the acquisition date.
The amount of identifiable intangible assets recognized as of the acquisition date.
Amount of long-term debt due after one year or the normal operating cycle, if longer, assumed at the acquisition date.
Amount recognized for assets, including goodwill, in excess of (less than) the aggregate liabilities assumed.
Amount, after accumulated impairment loss, of asset representing future economic benefit arising from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Weighted average amortization period of finite-lived intangible assets acquired either individually or as part of a group of assets, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents the reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
The amount of identifiable intangible assets recognized as of the acquisition date.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
The pro forma diluted net income per share for a period as if the business combination or combinations had been completed at the beginning of a period.
The pro forma net Income or Loss for the period as if the business combination or combinations had been completed at the beginning of a period.
The pro forma revenue for a period as if the business combination or combinations had been completed at the beginning of the period.
Amount, after accumulated impairment loss, of asset representing future economic benefit arising from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized.
Amount of increase in asset representing future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized resulting from a business combination.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of increase (decrease) of asset representing future economic benefit from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized, classified as other.
Amount of accumulated impairment loss for asset representing future economic benefit arising from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized.
Amount of impairment loss from asset representing future economic benefit arising from other asset acquired in business combination or from joint venture formation or both, that is not individually identified and separately recognized.
Accumulated amount of amortization of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life.
Amount before amortization of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount after amortization of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Weighted average amortization period of finite-lived intangible assets acquired either individually or as part of a group of assets, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents the reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Amount of increase in assets, excluding financial assets, lacking physical substance with a definite life, from an acquisition.
The aggregate expense charged against earnings to allocate the cost of intangible assets (nonphysical assets not used in production) in a systematic and rational manner to the periods expected to benefit from such assets. As a noncash expense, this element is added back to net income when calculating cash provided by or used in operations using the indirect method.
Amount of amortization for asset, excluding financial asset and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized after fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of amortization for assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized in next fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of amortization for assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized in fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of amortization for assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized in fourth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of amortization for assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized in third fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of amortization for assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with finite life expected to be recognized in second fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount after amortization of assets, excluding financial assets and goodwill, lacking physical substance with a finite life.
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the interest rate swaps related to fixed-rate debt.
Hedge accounting fair value adjustments.
Amount, before unamortized (discount) premium and debt issuance costs, of long-term debt. Includes, but is not limited to, notes payable, bonds payable, commercial loans, mortgage loans, convertible debt, subordinated debt and other types of debt.
Effective interest rate for the funds borrowed under the debt agreement considering interest compounding and original issue discount or premium.
Contractual interest rate for funds borrowed, under the debt agreement.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of unamortized debt discount (premium) and debt issuance costs.
Amount, after deduction of unamortized premium (discount) and debt issuance cost, of long-term debt. Excludes lease obligation.
Amount, after deduction of unamortized premium (discount) and debt issuance cost, of long-term debt classified as current. Excludes lease obligation.
Amount, after deduction of unamortized premium (discount) and debt issuance cost, of long-term debt classified as noncurrent. Excludes lease obligation.
Face (par) amount of debt instrument at time of issuance.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Carrying value as of the balance sheet date of short-term borrowings using unsecured obligations issued by banks, corporations and other borrowers to investors. The maturities of these money market securities generally do not exceed 270 days.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Period of time between issuance and maturity of debt instrument, in PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents the reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Amount of cash paid for interest, including, but not limited to, capitalized interest and payment to settle zero-coupon bond attributable to accreted interest of debt discount and debt instrument with insignificant coupon interest rate in relation to effective interest rate of borrowing attributable to accreted interest of debt discount; classified as operating and investing activities.
The fair value amount of long-term debt whether such amount is presented as a separate caption or as a parenthetical disclosure. Additionally, this element may be used in connection with the fair value disclosures required in the footnote disclosures to the financial statements. The element may be used in both the balance sheet and disclosure in the same submission.
Weighted average interest rate of short-term debt outstanding calculated at point in time.
Amount, before unamortized (discount) premium and debt issuance costs, of long-term debt. Includes, but is not limited to, notes payable, bonds payable, commercial loans, mortgage loans, convertible debt, subordinated debt and other types of debt.
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing after fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing in next fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing in fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing in fourth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing in third fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of long-term debt payable, sinking fund requirement, and other securities issued that are redeemable by holder at fixed or determinable price and date, maturing in second fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of current federal tax expense (benefit) attributable to income (loss) from continuing operations. Includes, but is not limited to, current national tax expense (benefit) for non-US (United States of America) jurisdiction.
Amount of current foreign income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to income (loss) from continuing operations.
Amount of current income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to taxable income (loss) from continuing operations.
Amount of current state and local tax expense (benefit) attributable to income (loss) from continuing operations. Includes, but is not limited to, current regional, territorial, and provincial tax expense (benefit) for non-US (United States of America) jurisdiction.
Amount of deferred federal tax expense (benefit) attributable to income (loss) from continuing operations. Includes, but is not limited to, deferred national tax expense (benefit) for non-US (United States of America) jurisdiction.
Amount of deferred foreign income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to income (loss) from continuing operations.
Amount of deferred income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to income (loss) from continuing operations.
Amount of deferred state and local tax expense (benefit) attributable to income (loss) from continuing operations. Includes, but is not limited to, deferred regional, territorial, and provincial tax expense (benefit) for non-US (United States of America) jurisdiction.
Amount of current income tax expense (benefit) and deferred income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to continuing operations.
The portion of earnings or loss from continuing operations before income taxes that is attributable to domestic operations.
Amount of income (loss) from continuing operations, including income (loss) from equity method investments, before deduction of income tax expense (benefit), and income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest.
The portion of earnings or loss from continuing operations before income taxes that is attributable to foreign operations, which is defined as Income or Loss generated from operations located outside the entity's country of domicile.
Effective income tax rate reconciliation deductions excess tax benefits stock based compensation.
Effective income tax rate reconciliation interest income (expense).
Percentage of current income tax expense (benefit) and deferred income tax expense (benefit) pertaining to continuing operations.
Percentage of domestic federal statutory tax rate applicable to pretax income (loss).
Percentage of reported income tax benefit from difference to income tax expense (benefit) computed by applying domestic federal statutory income tax rate to pretax income (loss) from continuing operations, attributable to foreign-derived intangible income (FDII).
Percentage of the difference between reported income tax expense (benefit) and expected income tax expense (benefit) computed by applying the domestic federal statutory income tax rates to pretax income (loss) from continuing operations applicable to statutory income tax expense (benefit) outside of the country of domicile.
Percentage of the difference between reported income tax expense (benefit) and expected income tax expense (benefit) computed by applying the domestic federal statutory income tax rates to pretax income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to other adjustments.
Percentage of the difference between reported income tax expense (benefit) and expected income tax expense (benefit) computed by applying the domestic federal statutory income tax rates to pretax income (loss) from continuing operations applicable to state and local income tax expense (benefit), net of federal tax expense (benefit).
Percentage of the difference between reported income tax expense (benefit) and expected income tax expense (benefit) computed by applying the domestic federal statutory income tax rates to pretax income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to research tax credit.
Amount of capital loss carryforward, before tax effects, available to reduce future taxable capital gain under enacted tax laws.
Capital loss carryforwards expiration year.
Operating loss carryforwards expiration year.
Amount, after refund, of cash paid to foreign, federal, state, and local jurisdictions as income tax.
Amount of operating loss carryforward, before tax effects, available to reduce future taxable income under enacted tax laws.
Amount of unrecognized tax benefits.
Amount accrued for interest on an underpayment of income taxes and penalties related to a tax position claimed or expected to be claimed in the tax return.
Amount of expense for interest on an underpayment of income taxes and penalties related to a tax position claimed or expected to be claimed in the tax return.
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences from amortization.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax assets attributable to book tax basis differences in investments and debt.
Amount of deferred tax asset attributable to capitalization of research and development expenditures.
Deferred tax assets, leasing liabilities.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to deferred tax on foreign earnings.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to depreciation.
Amount, after allocation of valuation allowances and deferred tax liability, of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible differences and carryforwards, with jurisdictional netting.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable temporary differences.
Amount, after deferred tax asset, of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable differences with jurisdictional netting.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences from deferred income.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences and carryforwards.
Amount, after allocation of valuation allowances and deferred tax liability, of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible differences and carryforwards, without jurisdictional netting.
Amount after allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences and carryforwards.
Amount, before allocation of valuation allowance, of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences, classified as other.
Amount before allocation of valuation allowances of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences from share-based compensation.
Amount, before allocation of valuation allowance, of deferred tax asset attributable to deductible temporary differences from reserves and accruals, classified as other.
Amount of deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable temporary differences from leasing arrangements.
Amount of deferred tax liability attributable to taxable temporary differences classified as other.
Amount of unrecognized tax benefits.
Amount of decrease in unrecognized tax benefits resulting from tax positions taken in prior period tax returns.
Amount of decrease in unrecognized tax benefits resulting from settlements with taxing authorities.
Amount of increase in unrecognized tax benefits resulting from tax positions that have been or will be taken in current period tax return.
Amount of increase in unrecognized tax benefits resulting from tax positions taken in prior period tax returns.
Amount of decrease in unrecognized tax benefits resulting from lapses of applicable statutes of limitations.
IRS audit notices of proposed adjustment amount.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Tax year being audited in the income tax examination, in YYYY format.
Tax year that remains open to examination under enacted tax laws, in YYYY format.
Amount of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration has been received or is receivable.
Amount of revenue deferred for contract with customer.
Amount of revenue recognized including additions that was previously included in balance of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration from customer has been received or is due.
Amount of obligation to transfer good or service to customer for which consideration has been received or is receivable.
Amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligation that has not been recognized as revenue.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Period in which remaining performance obligation is expected to be recognized as revenue, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Percentage of remaining performance obligation to total remaining performance obligation not recognized as revenue.
Lessee, operating and finance leases options to terminate leases term.
Lessee, operating and finance leases remaining lease term.
Term of lessee's finance lease not yet commenced, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Term of lessee's finance lease renewal, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Term of lessee's operating lease not yet commenced, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Term of lessee's operating lease renewal, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Amount of unrecorded obligation to transfer funds in future for fixed or minimum amount or quantity of product and service at fixed or minimum price. Includes, but is not limited to, lease not yet commenced and take-or-pay and throughput contracts.
Amount of interest expense on finance lease liability.
Amount of amortization expense attributable to right-of-use asset from finance lease.
Amount of single lease cost, calculated by allocation of remaining cost of lease over remaining lease term. Includes, but is not limited to, single lease cost, after impairment of right-of-use asset, calculated by amortization of remaining right-of-use asset and accretion of lease liability.
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
Cash paid for amounts included in measurement of lease liabilities.
Right of use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations.
Amount of interest paid on finance lease liability.
Amount of cash outflow for principal payment on finance lease.
Amount of cash outflow from operating lease, excluding payments to bring another asset to condition and location necessary for its intended use.
Amount of increase in right-of-use asset obtained in exchange for finance lease liability.
Amount of increase in right-of-use asset obtained in exchange for operating lease liability.
Amount of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization for physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services.
Present value of lessee's discounted obligation for lease payments from finance lease.
Weighted average discount rate for finance lease calculated at point in time.
Weighted average remaining lease term for finance lease, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Present value of lessee's discounted obligation for lease payments from operating lease.
Amount of lessee's right to use underlying asset under operating lease.
Weighted average discount rate for operating lease calculated at point in time.
Weighted average remaining lease term for operating lease, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Amount before accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business and not intended for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures.
Amount after accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of physical assets used in the normal conduct of business to produce goods and services and not intended for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings, machinery and equipment, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures.
Present value of lessee's discounted obligation for lease payments from finance lease.
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payments for finance lease.
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid after fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid in next fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid in fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid in fourth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid in third fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for finance lease to be paid in second fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payments in excess of discounted obligation for lease payments for finance lease.
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease.
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease due after fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease to be paid in next fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease to be paid in fifth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease to be paid in fourth fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease to be paid in third fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payment for operating lease to be paid in second fiscal year following current fiscal year. Excludes interim and annual periods when interim periods are reported from current statement of financial position date (rolling approach).
Amount of lessee's undiscounted obligation for lease payments in excess of discounted obligation for lease payments for operating lease.
Present value of lessee's discounted obligation for lease payments from operating lease.
Amount of loss contingency liability.
The difference between the maximum amount of estimated loss and the amount recorded as of the balance sheet date.
Number of shares of common stock outstanding. Common stock represent the ownership interest in a corporation.
Number of new stock issued during the period.
Number of shares that have been repurchased during the period and have not been retired and are not held in treasury. Some state laws may govern the circumstances under which an entity may acquire its own stock and prescribe the accounting treatment therefore. This element is used when state law does not recognize treasury stock.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount authorized for purchase of share under share repurchase plan. Includes, but is not limited to, repurchase of stock and unit of ownership.
Amount of cash outflow to satisfy grantee's tax withholding obligation for award under share-based payment arrangement.
Amount remaining authorized for purchase of share under share repurchase plan. Includes, but is not limited to, repurchase of stock and unit of ownership.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Number of shares that have been repurchased during the period and have not been retired and are not held in treasury. Some state laws may govern the circumstances under which an entity may acquire its own stock and prescribe the accounting treatment therefore. This element is used when state law does not recognize treasury stock.
Equity impact of the value of stock that has been repurchased during the period and has not been retired and is not held in treasury. Some state laws may mandate the circumstances under which an entity may acquire its own stock and prescribe the accounting treatment therefore. This element is used when state law does not recognize treasury stock.
Aggregate dividends declared during the period for each share of common stock outstanding.
Date the declared dividend will be paid, in YYYY-MM-DD format.
Amount of paid and unpaid common stock dividends declared with the form of settlement in cash.
Date the dividend to be paid was declared, in YYYY-MM-DD format.
Date the holder must own the stock to be entitled to the dividend, in YYYY-MM-DD format.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount after tax, before reclassification adjustments, of other comprehensive income (loss), attributable to parent.
Amount after tax of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent entity.
Amount before tax of reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent.
Amount after tax of reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent.
Amount of tax expense (benefit) of reclassification adjustment from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Amount of equity (deficit) attributable to parent. Excludes temporary equity and equity attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount of tax expense (benefit) allocated to other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassification adjustment from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Amount of tax expense (benefit) allocated to other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to parent entity.
Amount of expense for award under share-based payment arrangement. Excludes amount capitalized.
Amount of tax benefit for recognition of expense of award under share-based payment arrangement.
Amount of cost for defined contribution plan.
Amount of cost not yet recognized for nonvested award under share-based payment arrangement.
Weighted-average period over which cost not yet recognized is expected to be recognized for award under share-based payment arrangement, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days.
Period over which grantee's right to exercise award under share-based payment arrangement is no longer contingent on satisfaction of service or performance condition, in 'PnYnMnDTnHnMnS' format, for example, 'P1Y5M13D' represents reported fact of one year, five months, and thirteen days. Includes, but is not limited to, combination of market, performance or service condition.
The weighted average fair value at grant date for nonvested equity-based awards issued during the period on other than stock (or unit) option plans (for example, phantom stock or unit plan, stock or unit appreciation rights plan, performance target plan).
Fair value of share-based awards for which the grantee gained the right by satisfying service and performance requirements, to receive or retain shares or units, other instruments, or cash.
The highest percentage of annual salary that an employee is permitted to utilize with respect to the plan.
The difference between the maximum number of shares (or other type of equity) authorized for issuance under the plan (including the effects of amendments and adjustments), and the sum of: 1) the number of shares (or other type of equity) already issued upon exercise of options or other equity-based awards under the plan; and 2) shares (or other type of equity) reserved for issuance on granting of outstanding awards, net of cancellations and forfeitures, if applicable.
Purchase price of common stock expressed as a percentage of its fair value.
The maximum risk-free interest rate assumption that is used in valuing an option on its own shares.
The minimum risk-free interest rate assumption that is used in valuing an option on its own shares.
The number of equity-based payment instruments, excluding stock (or unit) options, that were forfeited during the reporting period.
Weighted average fair value as of the grant date of equity-based award plans other than stock (unit) option plans that were not exercised or put into effect as a result of the occurrence of a terminating event.
The number of grants made during the period on other than stock (or unit) option plans (for example, phantom stock or unit plan, stock or unit appreciation rights plan, performance target plan).
The weighted average fair value at grant date for nonvested equity-based awards issued during the period on other than stock (or unit) option plans (for example, phantom stock or unit plan, stock or unit appreciation rights plan, performance target plan).
The number of non-vested equity-based payment instruments, excluding stock (or unit) options, that validly exist and are outstanding as of the balance sheet date.
A roll forward is a reconciliation of a concept from the beginning of a period to the end of a period.
Per share or unit weighted-average fair value of nonvested award under share-based payment arrangement. Excludes share and unit options.
The number of equity-based payment instruments, excluding stock (or unit) options, that vested during the reporting period.
The weighted average fair value as of grant date pertaining to an equity-based award plan other than a stock (or unit) option plan for which the grantee gained the right during the reporting period, by satisfying service and performance requirements, to receive or retain shares or units, other instruments, or cash in accordance with the terms of the arrangement.
The number of grants made during the period on other than stock (or unit) option plans (for example, phantom stock or unit plan, stock or unit appreciation rights plan, performance target plan).
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
The average price per share of stock purchased by employees under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during the period.
Number of shares issued during the period as a result of an employee stock purchase plan.
The aggregate costs related to goods produced and sold and services rendered by an entity during the reporting period. This excludes costs incurred during the reporting period related to financial services rendered and other revenue generating activities.
Generally recurring costs associated with normal operations except for the portion of these expenses which can be clearly related to production and included in cost of sales or services. Includes selling, general and administrative expense.
The net result for the period of deducting operating expenses from operating revenues.
Amount, excluding tax collected from customer, of revenue from satisfaction of performance obligation by transferring promised good or service to customer. Tax collected from customer is tax assessed by governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transaction, including, but not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
The CODM uses operating income to allocate resources during our annual planning process and throughout the year, as well as to assess the performance of our segments, primarily by monitoring actual results compared to prior periods and expected results.
No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States accounted for more than 10% of revenue for fiscal years 2025, 2024, or 2023.
Indicates title and position of individual or name of group identified as chief operating decision maker (CODM) for segment reporting.
Description of how chief operating decision maker (CODM) uses reported segment profit (loss) measure to assess performance and allocate resource.
Disclosure of the extent of enterprise reliance on its major customers. For example, includes revenues from transactions with a single external customer amounting to 10 percent or more of the entity's revenues, the total amount of revenues from each such customer, and the identity of the segment or segments reporting the revenues. A group of entities that the entity knows to be under common control generally will be considered a single customer for inclusion in this item. The federal government, a state government, a local government (for example, a county or municipality), or a foreign government each will generally be considered as a single customer for inclusion in this item.
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.
Amount, excluding tax collected from customer, of revenue from satisfaction of performance obligation by transferring promised good or service to customer. Tax collected from customer is tax assessed by governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transaction, including, but not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount, excluding tax collected from customer, of revenue from satisfaction of performance obligation by transferring promised good or service to customer. Tax collected from customer is tax assessed by governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transaction, including, but not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.
Amount, excluding tax collected from customer, of revenue from satisfaction of performance obligation by transferring promised good or service to customer. Tax collected from customer is tax assessed by governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transaction, including, but not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise.
Long-lived assets other than financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a financial institution, mortgage and other servicing rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets.
Line items represent financial concepts included in a table. These concepts are used to disclose reportable information associated with domain members defined in one or many axes to the table.

Satya Nadella is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft Corporation. Amy Hood is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Brad Smith is the Vice Chair and President.